content/commcalls/2023-06-28/index.md, before:

---
title: "A Journey through Arrow in R"
dateStart: 2023-06-28T16:00:00 # UTC!!
dateEnd: 2023-06-28T17:00:00 # UTC!!
date: 2023-06-28T16:00:00 # UTC!! same as dateEnd
publishDate: 2023-06-28
description: Community Call covering {arrow} intro and use cases.
author:
  - Stephanie Hazlitt
  - Jonathan Keane
  - Nic Crane
organizer: Yanina Bellini Saibene
location: Community call (teleconference)
country: "\U0001F310"
attendees: All are welcome
slug: jun2023-arrow
notes: 
outputs:
- HTML
- Calendar 
# vimeo:
#  - id: ''
resources:
  - url: https://arrow.apache.org/docs/r/index.html
    name: Arrow R Package Documentation  
    details: The arrow R package exposes an interface to the Arrow C++ library, enabling access to many of its features in R. It provides low-level access to the Arrow C++ library API and higher-level access through a dplyr backend and familiar R functions.
 
speakers:  
  - name: Nic Crane
    bio:  Nic Crane is an R developer, educator, and general enthusiast, with a background in data science and software engineering.  Nic is a member of the Apache Arrow Project Management Committee (PMC) and is the current maintainer of the arrow R package.
    img: /img/community/nic-crane.png
  - name: Jonathan Keane
    bio:  Jonathan Keane is an engineering manager with a background in software engineering and data science. Jonathan is a part of the team who maintains the Arrow project including the Arrow R package.      
    img: /img/community/jonathan-keane.png
  - name: Stephanie Hazlitt 
    bio: Steph Hazlitt is a data scientist, researcher and R enthusiast. She has spent the better part of her career wrangling data with R and supporting people and teams in learning, creating and sharing data science-related products and open source software.
    img: /img/community/stephanie-hazlitt.jpeg  
tags:
  - community call
  - events
  - arrow
deets: |
    Meeting ID: 890 7662 9765 
    Passcode: 385358
zoomurl: https://numfocus-org.zoom.us/j/89076629765?pwd=cjRFeHN1TlVXdDFRK0FXRnlzcENuZz09
---

Apache Arrow is a software development platform for building high performance applications that process and transport large data sets. It is designed to improve the performance of data analysis methods, and to increase the efficiency of moving data from one system or programming language to another.

In this community call moderated by Stephanie Hazlitt, our speakers, Nic Crane and Jonathan Keane, will lead us through the Arrow R package.

See below for speaker bios and resources.

Commit message:

Adding resources (#599)
* Adding resources

* Adding google doc

* Adding more resources

* fixing description

* Adding video with subtitles

content/commcalls/2023-06-28/index.md, after:

---
title: "A Journey through Arrow in R"
dateStart: 2023-06-28T16:00:00 # UTC!!
dateEnd: 2023-06-28T17:00:00 # UTC!!
date: 2023-06-28T16:00:00 # UTC!! same as dateEnd
publishDate: 2023-06-28
description: Community Call covering {arrow} intro and use cases.
author:
  - Stephanie Hazlitt
  - Jonathan Keane
  - Nic Crane
organizer: Yanina Bellini Saibene
location: Community call (teleconference)
country: "\U0001F310"
attendees: All are welcome
slug: jun2023-arrow
notes: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1k2K8bnSRNpg7MNOcGlzFk3-yB5uzjosabA4k96PEen8/edit?usp=sharing
outputs:
- HTML
- Calendar 
vimeo:
  - id: '841548305'
resources:
  - url: https://arrow.apache.org/docs/r/index.html
    name: Arrow R Package Documentation  
    details: The arrow R package exposes an interface to the Arrow C++ library, enabling access to many of its features in R. It provides low-level access to the Arrow C++ library API and higher-level access through a dplyr backend and familiar R functions.
  - url: https://github.com/thisisnic/journey_through_arrow_in_r/
    name: Slides  
    details: presenting arrow concept and resources.
  - url: https://github.com/thisisnic/journey_through_arrow_in_r/blob/main/demo_script.R
    name: Demo script  
    details: R code used during the live demo
  - url: https://arrow.apache.org/cookbook/r/index.html 
    name: Apache Arrow R Cookbook 
    details: This cookbook aims to provide a number of recipes showing how to perform common tasks using arrow. 
  - url: https://arrow-user2022.netlify.app/
    name: Larger-Than-Memory Data Workflows with Apache Arrow  
    details: useR 2022 workshop on how to use the arrow R package to create seamless engineering-to-analysis data pipelines. 
    
speakers:  
  - name: Nic Crane
    bio:  Nic Crane is an R developer, educator, and general enthusiast, with a background in data science and software engineering.  Nic is a member of the Apache Arrow Project Management Committee (PMC) and is the current maintainer of the arrow R package.
    img: /img/community/nic-crane.png
  - name: Jonathan Keane
    bio:  Jonathan Keane is an engineering manager with a background in software engineering and data science. Jonathan is a part of the team who maintains the Arrow project including the Arrow R package.      
    img: /img/community/jonathan-keane.png
  - name: Stephanie Hazlitt 
    bio: Steph Hazlitt is a data scientist, researcher and R enthusiast. She has spent the better part of her career wrangling data with R and supporting people and teams in learning, creating and sharing data science-related products and open source software.
    img: /img/community/stephanie-hazlitt.jpeg  
tags:
  - community call
  - events
  - arrow
deets: |
    Meeting ID: 890 7662 9765 
    Passcode: 385358
zoomurl: https://numfocus-org.zoom.us/j/89076629765?pwd=cjRFeHN1TlVXdDFRK0FXRnlzcENuZz09
---

Apache Arrow is a software development platform for building high performance applications that process and transport large data sets. It is designed to improve the performance of data analysis methods, and to increase the efficiency of moving data from one system or programming language to another.

In this community call moderated by Stephanie Hazlitt, our speakers, Nic Crane and Jonathan Keane, will lead us through the Arrow R package.

See below for speaker bios and resources.
