content/commcalls/2021-10-26/index.md, before:

---
title: "Expanding Software Peer Review: Statistical Package Standards at rOpenSci"
dateStart: 2021-10-26T18:00:00 # UTC!!
dateEnd: 2021-10-26T19:00:00 # UTC!!
date: 2021-10-26T19:00:00 # UTC!! same as dateEnd
publishDate: 2021-10-14
description: Statistical package standards at rOpenSci and stakeholder needs 
author:
  - Noam Ross
  - Rebecca Killick
  - Christoph Sax
  - Juliane Manitz
organizer: Stefanie Butland
location: Community call (teleconference)
country: "\U0001F310"
attendees: All are welcome
slug: oct2021-statsreview02
# notes: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1o933nG1ZW2Qf8p7FdQxn8wOkk9qoBINL1fx3FlIFSJU/
outputs:
- HTML
- Calendar 
# vimeo:
# - id: '518761488'
resources:
  - url: /blog/2021/03/09/commcall-stats/
    name: Summary blog post
    details: of first community call on statistical software peer review
  - url: https://ropenscilabs.github.io/statistical-software-review-book/index.html
    name: rOpenSci Statistical Software Peer Review
    details: book
  - url: https://stats-devguide.ropensci.org/
    name: 'autotest: automatic testing of R packages'
  - url: https://github.com/ropenscilabs/srr
    name: 'Software Review Roclets: The srr package'
  - url: https://discuss.ropensci.org/c/statistical-software-peer-review/28
    name: community forum
    details: for discussion of statistical software peer review
  - url: https://github.com/ropenscilabs/statistical-software-review/issues
    name: Open an issue
    details: if you're interested in submitting a package
  - url: https://www.pharmar.org/
    name: R Validation Hub
  - url: https://github.com/pharmaR/riskmetric
    name: riskmetric package
    details: from R Validation Hub    
speakers:  
  - name: Noam Ross
    bio: Noam Ross is Principal Scientist for Computational Research at [EcoHealth Alliance](https://www.ecohealthalliance.org/) and rOpenSci Software Review Lead. He co-leads the rOpenSci Statistical Software Testing and Peer Review project. Noam on [GitHub](https://github.com/noamross), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/noamross), [Website](https://www.noamross.net/)
    img: /img/team/noam_ross.png
  - name: Rebecca Killick
    bio: Rebecca Killick is a Senior Lecturer (Associate Professor) in Statistics at Lancaster University, UK. Their research is in solving real-world problems for data whose statistical properties vary over time, by developing statistical methodology for changepoint detection (abrupt changes) and locally stationary (slowly varying) modelling. Killick has authored 4 CRAN packages and their changepoint package is used in over 70 different companies around the world, has been translated into other programming languages and cited more than 1,000 times. Killick is co-Editor-in-chief of the Journal of Statistical Software and a member of the rOpenSci Statistical Software Peer Review advisory committee. Rebecca on [GitHub](https://github.com/rkillick), [Website](https://www.lancs.ac.uk/~killick/)
    img: /img/team/rebecca-killick.jpg
  - name: Christoph Sax
    bio: Christoph Sax is a founder and partner at cynkra, a data science consulting firm from Zürich, Switzerland. An economist by training, he has a particular interest in time series research. He is the author of several R packages that are related to time series processing, such as seasonal and tsbox. Christoph on [GitHub](https://github.com/christophsax), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/christoph_sax), [Website](https://cynkra.com/about/)
    img: /img/community/christoph-sax.jpg
  - name: Juliane Manitz
    bio: Juliane Manitz is a statistician who currently works in the field of immuno-oncology at EMD Serono, MA USA. She has contributed to various R packages and is member of the R validation Hub executive committee. Juliane on [GitHub](https://github.com/jmanitz), [Website](http://www.manitz.org/)
    img: /img/community/juliane-manitz.png
tags:
  - community call
  - events
  - Software Peer Review
  - statistics
  - reproducibility
  - statistical software
deets: |
    Meeting ID: 933 6999 6529
    
    Passcode: 088482
zoomurl: https://zoom.us/j/93369996529?pwd=a0EwcjVuaTJjSWtodk5uR1A1bVlaZz09
---
_This is the second in a series of Community Calls we'll host throughout the year on our [statistical software review project](https://ropensci.org/stat-software-review/)._

We at rOpenSci have expanded the scope of our software peer review system to encompass explicitly statistical software. The first Community Call in this series covered XYZ tools. This time we want to address the bigger picture of why our development of statistical package standards begins to fill a critical unmet need. Rebecca Killick, a member of the XYZ board will talk about ABC standards. Juliane Manitz will talk about XYZ perspective R Validation Hub and pharmaceutical industry. Christoph Sax will talk about his first hand experience preparing his tsbox package for review.

ADD GENERAL ENTICING BLURB

This one-hour event will provide ....

Commit message:

edits to blurb and bios

content/commcalls/2021-10-26/index.md, after:

---
title: "Expanding Software Peer Review: Statistical Package Standards at rOpenSci"
dateStart: 2021-10-26T18:00:00 # UTC!!
dateEnd: 2021-10-26T19:00:00 # UTC!!
date: 2021-10-26T19:00:00 # UTC!! same as dateEnd
publishDate: 2021-10-18
description: Statistical package standards at rOpenSci and stakeholder needs 
author:
  - Noam Ross
  - Rebecca Killick
  - Christoph Sax
  - Juliane Manitz
organizer: Stefanie Butland
location: Community call (teleconference)
country: "\U0001F310"
attendees: All are welcome
slug: oct2021-statsreview02
# notes: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1o933nG1ZW2Qf8p7FdQxn8wOkk9qoBINL1fx3FlIFSJU/
outputs:
- HTML
- Calendar 
# vimeo:
# - id: '518761488'
resources:
  - url: /blog/2021/03/09/commcall-stats/
    name: Summary blog post
    details: of first community call on statistical software peer review
  - url: https://ropenscilabs.github.io/statistical-software-review-book/index.html
    name: rOpenSci Statistical Software Peer Review
    details: book
  - url: https://stats-devguide.ropensci.org/
    name: 'autotest: automatic testing of R packages'
  - url: https://github.com/ropenscilabs/srr
    name: 'Software Review Roclets: The srr package'
  - url: https://discuss.ropensci.org/c/statistical-software-peer-review/28
    name: community forum
    details: for discussion of statistical software peer review
  - url: https://github.com/ropenscilabs/statistical-software-review/issues
    name: Open an issue
    details: if you're interested in submitting a package
  - url: https://www.pharmar.org/
    name: R Validation Hub
  - url: https://github.com/pharmaR/riskmetric
    name: riskmetric package
    details: from R Validation Hub    
speakers:  
  - name: Noam Ross
    bio: Noam Ross is Principal Scientist for Computational Research at [EcoHealth Alliance](https://www.ecohealthalliance.org/) and rOpenSci Software Review Lead. He co-leads the rOpenSci Statistical Software Testing and Peer Review project. Noam on [GitHub](https://github.com/noamross), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/noamross), [Website](https://www.noamross.net/)
    img: /img/team/noam_ross.png
  - name: Rebecca Killick
    bio: Rebecca Killick is a Senior Lecturer (Associate Professor) in Statistics at [Lancaster University](https://www.lancaster.ac.uk/maths/), UK. Their research is in solving real-world problems for data whose statistical properties vary over time, by developing statistical methodology for changepoint detection (abrupt changes) and locally stationary (slowly varying) modelling. Killick has authored 4 CRAN packages and their changepoint package is used in over 70 different companies around the world, has been translated into other programming languages and cited more than 1,000 times. Killick is co-Editor-in-chief of the Journal of Statistical Software and a member of the rOpenSci Statistical Software Peer Review advisory committee. Rebecca on [GitHub](https://github.com/rkillick), [Website](https://www.lancs.ac.uk/~killick/)
    img: /img/team/rebecca-killick.jpg
  - name: Christoph Sax
    bio: Christoph Sax is a founder and partner at [cynkra](https://cynkra.com/), a data science consulting firm from Zürich, Switzerland. An economist by training, he has a particular interest in time series research. He is the author of several R packages that are related to time series processing, such as seasonal and tsbox. Christoph on [GitHub](https://github.com/christophsax), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/christoph_sax), [Website](https://cynkra.com/about/)
    img: /img/community/christoph-sax.jpg
  - name: Juliane Manitz
    bio: Juliane Manitz is a statistician in the pharmaceutical industry who currently works in the field of immuno-oncology at [EMD Serono](https://www.emdserono.com/), MA USA. She has contributed to various R packages and is member of the R validation Hub executive committee working on software validation for usage in pharmaceutical trials. Juliane on [GitHub](https://github.com/jmanitz), [Website](http://www.manitz.org/)
    img: /img/community/juliane-manitz.png
tags:
  - community call
  - events
  - Software Peer Review
  - statistics
  - reproducibility
  - statistical software
deets: |
    Meeting ID: 933 6999 6529
    
    Passcode: 088482
zoomurl: https://zoom.us/j/93369996529?pwd=a0EwcjVuaTJjSWtodk5uR1A1bVlaZz09
---
_This is the second in a series of 1-hour Community Calls on our [statistical software review project](https://ropensci.org/stat-software-review/)._

We at rOpenSci have expanded the scope of our software peer review system to encompass explicitly statistical software. The [first Community Call in this series](/commcalls/feb2021-statsreview/) covered new tools to help people prepare their software for submission. This time, we will address the bigger picture of how our community-informed development of standards for statistical packages meets a critical need of stakeholders. Noam Ross (EcoHealth Alliance and rOpenSci Software Review Lead) will catch everyone up on the project. Rebecca Killick (Lancaster University and rOpenSci Statistical Software Peer Review advisory committee) will offer insights into standardisation and the potential role our program might play in the future of statistical software and open source software in general. Juliane Manitz (EMD Serono and R Validation Hub) will offer a perspective on the use of open source software in regulated environments. Christoph Sax (cynkra) will share his experience as the first person to submit a package for review and aligning his software with our standards.

See below for speaker bios and resources.
