---
title: 'The Story Behind censo2017, the First rOpenSci Package to be Reviewed in Spanish'
author:
  - Pachá (aka Mauricio Vargas Sepúlveda)
date: '2021-06-20'
version: 0.5
slug: censo2017
categories:
  - blog
tags:
  - open-science
  - reproducible-research
  - data-access
  - data-extraction
  - geospatial
  - community
  - software-peer-review
  - censo2017
description: >
  Chilean census tables at a glance.
---

# Summary

[censo2017](https://docs.ropensci.org/censo2017) is an R package designed to
organize the [Redatam](https://www.cepal.org/es/temas/redatam)[^1] files
provided by the Chilean National Bureau of Statistics (Instituto Nacional de
Estadísticas de Chile in spanish) in DVD format[^2]. This package was inspired
by [citesdb](https://github.com/ropensci/citedb) 
([Noam Ross](/author/noam-ross/), 2020) and [taxadb](https://github.com/ropensci/taxadb)
([Carl Boettiger](/autor/carl-boettiger/) et al, 2021).
This post is about this
package, the problem it solves, how to use it, and the fact that the package and
its review process were [all in
Spanish](https://github.com/ropensci/software-review/issues/414).

[^1]: Redatam is a widely used software for disseminating population censuses.
While it is free to use, it uses a closed format.

[^2]: For the period June 2018 - December 2019, the Census was available in [DVD](https://www.ine.cl/prensa/2019/09/16/ine-pone-a-disposici%C3%B3n-la-base-de-microdatos-del-censo-2017)
and REDATAM formats only. Now it's available
[online](https://www.ine.cl/estadisticas/sociales/censos-de-poblacion-y-vivienda/poblacion-y-vivienda)
in REDATAM, SPSS and CSV formats.

# The census challenge

The motivation
to have completed this is that, almost two years ago now, I had to complete an
assignment that required me to extract data from the aforementioned DVD and it
got very complicated.

I had to borrow a Windows laptop and get an external DVD reader in order to read
those REDATAM files to obtain a few population summaries with specific software
for that format. To my surprise, the task started to get more and more
challenging, to the point that I wanted to export the data to SQL for easier
data extraction.

My goal wasn’t to extract statistical secrets, which is not possible with these
datasets, I just wanted to obtain values of population by age intervals for
different regions, among other similar aggregations, which is something that
dplyr and other tools ease a lot. After being able to convert the datasets and
the description of variables to CSV/XML, I found that the effort in doing that
justified creating an R package to organize my work.

# The long way to simplicity

[The REDATAM Converter](http://www.scielo.org.mx/scielo.php?pid=S0186-72102016000300811&script=sci_arttext)
(Pablo De Grande, 2016) allows exporting complete REDATAM databases as CSV for 
use in, for example, R or Python. Unfortunately, this tool is also Windows-only,
and as a Linux user I wanted to make the census datasets easily available for 
all platforms.

Besides REDATAM, using CSV for a census is not the best choice, as that involves
reading 4 GB tables from disk. This is so big that most laptops won’t be able to
perform joins, no matter what tool you use (R, Python or sub-tools such as readr
or data.table, just to mention a few excellent tools). However, using a SQL
based tool, such as DuckDB, allows efficient querying and makes most census
operations possible on a common laptop.

censo2017 creates a local and embedded [DuckDB](https://duckdb.org/) database
that simplifies analysis of the census datasets. It allows efficient querying
and is accessible via a [DBI](https://dbi.r-dbi.org/) compatible interface. The
package also provides an interactive pane for [RStudio](https://www.rstudio.com)
that allows exploring the database and previewing data. The ultimate goal of
this work is to ease data access for researchers in Humanities and Social
Sciences.

There is a large difference between a working package and a well-crafted
package. During the peer-review process, all the comments from the reviewers
helped to polish the package in order to obtain a perfect
[ashlar](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ashlar) from a rough ashlar. The package
is already available on GitHub and had two major releases that simplified the
usage for the end user considerably.

# How does censo2017 work?

For a quick illustration, assume we haven’t already installed the package and
the local database, which are two separate steps.

```r
# install
remotes::install_github("ropensci/censo2017")

# load package (i.e load functions)
library(censo2017)

# to be able to use collect() and use regular expressions
library(dplyr)

# create local database
censo_descargar()
```

We know there are roughly 17 million inhabitants in Chile, but how many of them
are men/women? How old are Chileans? How many of them attended
university/community college? How many of them work on each branch of economic
activity[^3]? Census questions “p08”, “p09”, “p15” and “p18” tell us this
information.

[^3]: For the case of Chile, the most aggregated division of economic activity
separates production into twelve branches: Agriculture and fishing; mining;
manufacturing industry; electricity, gas and water; construction; retail, hotels
and restaurants; transport, communications and information; financial services;
real estate; business services; personal services; public administration. For a
more detailed description, you can explore the [Input-Output Matrix of the
Chilean
economy](https://si3.bcentral.cl/estadisticas/Principal1/Metodologias/CCNN/cdr/Metodologias.html)
and/or the leontief package for sectoral analysis.

This package features a metadata table (variables) which is not a part of the
original files, as it was inferred from the REDATAM structure, that tells us to
which table each variable belongs. For example, by using dplyr we can look for
descriptions that match “Curso” (Course).

```r
tbl(censo_conectar(), "variables") %>%
  collect() %>%
  filter(grepl("Curso", descripcion))

  tabla    variable descripcion                       tipo    rango
  <chr>    <chr>    <chr>                             <chr>   <chr>
1 personas p14      Curso o Año Más Alto Aprobado     integer 0 - 8
2 personas p15      Nivel del Curso Más Alto Aprobado integer 1 - 14
```

Those who are familiar with these codes might remember each value for “p15”, but
fortunately for the rest of us, this package also attaches the labels, so any
user can see that “p15 = 12” means “the person attended university”.

```r
tbl(censo_conectar(), "variables_codificacion") %>%
  collect() %>%
  filter(variable == "p15")

   tabla    variable valor descripcion                                               
   <chr>    <chr>    <int> <chr>                                                     
 1 personas p15          1 Sala Cuna o Jardín Infantil                               
 2 personas p15          2 Prekínder                                                 
 3 personas p15          3 Kínder                                                    
 4 personas p15          4 Especial o Diferencial                                    
 5 personas p15          5 Educación Básica                                          
 6 personas p15          6 Primaria o Preparatoria (Sistema Antiguo)                 
 7 personas p15          7 Científico-Humanista                                      
 8 personas p15          8 Técnica Profesional                                       
 9 personas p15          9 Humanidades (Sistema Antiguo)                             
10 personas p15         10 Técnica Comercial, Industrial/Normalista (Sistema Antiguo)
11 personas p15         11 Técnico Superior (1-3 Años)                               
12 personas p15         12 Profesional (4 o Más Años)                                
13 personas p15         13 Magíster                                                  
14 personas p15         14 Doctorado                                                 
15 personas p15         99 Valor Perdido                                             
16 personas p15         98 No Aplica
```

To get detailed information for each commune/region regarding the questions
above, we need to think of the REDATAM data as a tree, and it is necessary to
join “zonas” (zones) with “viviendas” (dwellings) by zone ID, then join
“viviendas” with “hogares” (households) by dwelling ID, and then “hogares” with
“personas” (people) by household ID. This is done in no time with the DuckDB
backend.

```r
personas <- tbl(censo_conectar(), "zonas") %>%
  mutate(
    region = substr(as.character(geocodigo), 1, 2),
    comuna = substr(as.character(geocodigo), 1, 5)
  ) %>%
  select(region, comuna, geocodigo, zonaloc_ref_id) %>%
  inner_join(select(tbl(censo_conectar(), "viviendas"),
    zonaloc_ref_id, vivienda_ref_id), by = "zonaloc_ref_id") %>%
  inner_join(select(tbl(censo_conectar(), "hogares"), vivienda_ref_id,
    hogar_ref_id), by = "vivienda_ref_id") %>%
  inner_join(select(tbl(censo_conectar(), "personas"), hogar_ref_id,
    p08, p15, p18), by = "hogar_ref_id") %>%
  collect()
```

A quick verification can be obtained with a simple count. The resulting table
makes perfect sense and it reflects common knowledge summary statistics, such as
that in the capitol (region #13) there are around 7 million inhabitants.

```r
personas %>%
  group_by(region) %>%
  count()

   region       n
   <chr>    <int>
 1 01      330558
 2 02      607534
 3 03      286168
 4 04      757586
 5 05     1815902
 6 06      914555
 7 07     1044950
 8 08     2037414
 9 09      957224
10 10      828708
11 11      103158
12 12      166533
13 13     7112808
14 14      384837
15 15      226068
```

To get to know the share of men (1) and women (2) per region, it is very
similar.

```r
personas %>%
  group_by(region, p08) %>%
  count() %>%
  group_by(region) %>%
  mutate(p = n / sum(n))

  region   p08      n     p
   <chr>  <int>  <int> <dbl>
 1 01         1 167793 0.508
 2 01         2 162765 0.492
 3 02         1 315014 0.519
 4 02         2 292520 0.481
 5 03         1 144420 0.505
 6 03         2 141748 0.495
 7 04         1 368774 0.487
 8 04         2 388812 0.513
 9 05         1 880215 0.485
10 05         2 935687 0.515
# … with 20 more rows  
```

At this point we obtained simple aggregations, but being R a language for
statistics, you might be interested in doing inference. As an example, assume
that the population follows a normal distribution, so that it makes sense to
find the 95% confidence interval estimate of the difference between the male
proportion of elderly people[^4] and the female proportion of non-elderly
people, each within their own age group.

[^4]: From a methodological point of view, it’s easier to count people aged 64
or more (the legal age to be considered elder), than to count retired people, as
some industries allow people to retire later while others don’t, and the
decision is left up to agreement between the employee and the employer.

```r
sex_vs_elder <- tbl(censo_conectar(), "personas") %>%
  select(sex = p08, p09) %>%
  mutate(elderly = ifelse(p09 >= 64, 1, 0)) %>%
  group_by(sex, elderly) %>%
  count() %>%
  # labels re-arrangement, put here for efficiency
  mutate(
    elderly = ifelse(elderly == 1, "1. elderly", "2. non-elderly"),
    sex = ifelse(sex == 1, "1. men", "2. women")
  ) %>%
  ungroup() %>%
  collect()

sex_vs_elder

  sex      elderly              n
  <chr>    <chr>            <dbl>
1 1. men   2. non-elderly 7666728
2 2. women 2. non-elderly 7751676
3 1. men   1. elderly      935261
4 2. women 1. elderly     1220338
```

Before conducting a proportions test, we need to re-shape the data and then
proceed with the test.

```r
xtabs(n ~ elderly + sex, sex_vs_elder)

                 sex
elderly           1. men 2. women
  1. elderly      935261  1220338
  2. non-elderly 7666728  7751676

prop.test(xtabs(n ~ elderly + sex, sex_vs_elder))

  2-sample test for equality of proportions with continuity correction

data:  xtabs(n ~ elderly + sex, sex_vs_elder)
X-squared = 30392, df = 1, p-value < 2.2e-16
alternative hypothesis: two.sided
95 percent confidence interval:
 -0.06407740 -0.06266263
sample estimates:
   prop 1    prop 2
0.4338752 0.4972452
```

The 95% confidence interval estimate of the difference between the proportion of
male elders and non-elders is between -6.4% and -6.3%, which is in line with the
fact that women tend to have a longer life expectancy in Chile (see
[Statista](https://www.statista.com/statistics/949308/life-expectancy-birth-chile-gender/)
to compare). What I wanted to demonstrate here is that by using this package, it
is very easy to pass data to R, so that you can conduct regression analysis or
other statistical analyses on the Chilean population.

# Links to training and policy

Using open formats per se ease working as it reduces compatibility problems when
reading data, but datasets have to include proper documentation, not just come
in proper formats. For the particular case of censo2017, it makes education and
research resources more equitable, as it helps any institution that runs applied
statistics courses or research to conduct census statistical analysis regardless
of the tools they use, and focus on a region or any group of interest, such as
the indigenous population, the elderly or the people living in apartments.

The census database I provide within the package can be read in Python, Java
C++, node.js and even right away from a command line, and it is important to
mention that it’s multiplatform. For the case of GUI-based applied statistical
analysis, censo2017 makes it very easy to export subsets to Microsoft Excel or
Google Sheets, without the disadvantages of the original census format
previously discussed, and even to Stata and SPSS thanks to the R packages
ecosystem.

Universities and research centers in Latin America lack funding and governments
lack an evidence based policy agenda, which is a dangerous combination. Chile,
being part of Latin America, is not the exception, and over the past decades,
political stability and trade-led growth has been credited with lifting hundreds
of millions above the poverty line. There is substantial room in the country and
in the region to further reap benefits offered by a rational evidence-driven
government agenda.

Those who, like me, write R packages can to do our contribution by creating
tools that could support the countries in the region to get back on track to
achieving the Sustainable Development Goals defined by the United Nations, even
in spite of the recent rise of protectionism, political uncertainty and unclear
attitude towards global trade regime seen in Latin America. Developing and
enacting thoughtful policy is the only way to say ‘checkmate’ to
underdevelopment.

# rOpenSci community contribution

The help of rOpenSci and its [software
review](https://github.com/ropensci/software-review/issues/414) was pivotal.
Dedicated reviewers, [María Paula Caldas](https://www.mpaulacaldas.com/), [Frans
van Dunné](https://www.fransvandunne.com/) and [Melina
Vidoni](/author/melina-vidoni/), tested the package and suggested enhancements.
Their reviews were very helpful, they gave extremely valuable advice and were
really supportive of my work and the development of the package. I had the
chance to interact with them in the past, during R4DS translation process, where
I co-wrote an article with rOpenSci's editor [Mauro
Lepore](/author/mauro-lepore/), [Datos: datasets translations to promote
diversity, equity, and
inclusion](https://github.com/openjournals/jose-reviews/issues/99), as a result
of that collaboration.

The interested reader shall find a complete record of all the changes made
during the reviewing process, where everything is commented in Spanish, and
there shall be newer rOpenSci packages in languages other than English. Since
2011, rOpenSci has been creating technical infrastructure in the form of R
software tools that lower barriers to working with scientific data. I can only
remember the talk by my friend and colleague [Riva
Quiroga](https://www.rstudio.com/resources/rstudioconf-2020/the-development-of-datos-package-for-the-r4ds-spanish-translation/),
where she highlights that initiatives such as this are not just software, but
tools to make the community stronger.

I’d love to see different ‘forks’ of censo2017 in the contiguous countries Peru
and Bolivia, and the rest of the region. Creating the first rOpenSci package
fully documented in Spanish is not just about inclusiveness, which is obviously
desirable, but it’s also related to productivity, because in Latin America,
materials that are documented in English are hard to understand and therefore
the tools are not adopted as one would want. And just like the infrastructure
for R4DS in Spanish motivated the creation of R4DS in Portuguese, I hope that
censo2017 opens the door for interesting collaborations and similar packages in
different languages.

I think I do my best to contribute to initiatives such as rOpenSci because here
I have found my place and discovered others who have a heartfelt wish to go from
ignorance to knowledge at many different things, and we build tools to help
ourselves and others in that process. My present contribution is making the
right data, tools and best practices more discoverable while contributing to
social infrastructure at the same time.
