content/commcalls/2021-12-07/index.md, before:

---
title: "rOpenSci review-bot and Automation Tools"
dateStart: 2021-12-07T17:00:00 # UTC!!
dateEnd: 2021-12-07T18:00:00 # UTC!!
date: 2021-12-07T18:00:00 # UTC!! same as dateEnd
publishDate: 2021-10-28
description: tbd 
author:
  - Karthik Ram
  - Maëlle Salmon
  - Noam Ross
organizer: Stefanie Butland
location: Community call (teleconference)
country: "\U0001F310"
attendees: All are welcome
slug: dec2021-automation
# notes: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1o933nG1ZW2Qf8p7FdQxn8wOkk9qoBINL1fx3FlIFSJU/
outputs:
- HTML
- Calendar 
# vimeo:
# - id: '518761488'
# resources:
  # - url: /blog/2021/03/09/commcall-stats/
  #   name: Summary blog post
  #   details: of first community call on statistical software peer review   
speakers:  
  - name: Noam Ross
    bio: Noam Ross is Principal Scientist for Computational Research at [EcoHealth Alliance](https://www.ecohealthalliance.org/) and rOpenSci Software Review Lead. He co-leads the rOpenSci Statistical Software Testing and Peer Review project. Noam on [GitHub](https://github.com/noamross), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/noamross), [Website](https://www.noamross.net/)
    img: /img/team/noam_ross.png
  - name: Karthik Ram
    bio: Karthik Ram is a Senior Research Scientist with the Berkeley Institute for Data Science, Director and Co-founder of rOpenSci, Editor for rOpenSci Software Peer Review. He has a PhD in Ecology and Evolution. Karthik on [GitHub](https://github.com/karthik), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/\_inundata), [Website](http://karthik.io/), [rOpenSci](/author/karthik-ram/)
    img: /img/team/karthik-ram.png
  - name: Maëlle Salmon
    bio: "Maëlle Salmon is a R(esearch) Software Engineer, part-time with rOpenSci where she, among other things, maintains the guide [rOpenSci Packages: Development, Maintenance, and Peer Review](https://devguide.ropensci.org/). She also created the [R-hub blog](https://blog.r-hub.io) and co-wrote the book [HTTP testing in R](https://books.ropensci.org/http-testing) with [Scott Chamberlain](/author/scott-chamberlain). She lives in Nancy, France. Maëlle on [GitHub](https://github.com/maelle), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ma_salmon), [Website](https://masalmon.eu/), [rOpenSci](/author/maëlle-salmon/)."
    img: /img/team/maelle_salmon.jpg
tags:
  - community call
  - events
  - Software Peer Review
  - statistics
  - reproducibility
  - statistical software
  - automation
deets: |
    Meeting ID: 939 9725 9411
    
    Passcode: 615476
zoomurl: https://zoom.us/j/93997259411?pwd=Qmp5RHZlVHc0NGI1NVdnZTMvZkVkdz09
---

Compelling paragraph here

Commit message:

more content, add arfon author

content/commcalls/2021-12-07/index.md, after:

---
title: "Enhancing Software Peer-Review with GitHub Automation"
dateStart: 2021-12-07T17:00:00 # UTC!!
dateEnd: 2021-12-07T18:00:00 # UTC!!
date: 2021-12-07T18:00:00 # UTC!! same as dateEnd
publishDate: 2021-11-02
# description:  
author:
  - Arfon Smith
  - Karthik Ram
  - Maëlle Salmon
  - Noam Ross
organizer: Stefanie Butland
location: Community call (teleconference)
country: "\U0001F310"
attendees: All are welcome
slug: dec2021-automation
# notes: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1o933nG1ZW2Qf8p7FdQxn8wOkk9qoBINL1fx3FlIFSJU/
outputs:
- HTML
- Calendar 
# vimeo:
# - id: '518761488'
# resources:
  # - url: /blog/2021/03/09/commcall-stats/
  #   name: Summary blog post
  #   details: of first community call on statistical software peer review   
speakers: 
  - name: Arfon Smith
    bio: Arfon Smith is BIO
    img: /img/community/arfon-smith.jpg
  - name: Karthik Ram
    bio: Karthik Ram is a Senior Research Scientist with the Berkeley Institute for Data Science, Director and Co-founder of rOpenSci, Editor for rOpenSci Software Peer Review. He has a PhD in Ecology and Evolution. Karthik on [GitHub](https://github.com/karthik), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/\_inundata), [Website](http://karthik.io/), [rOpenSci](/author/karthik-ram/)
    img: /img/team/karthik-ram.png
  - name: Maëlle Salmon
    bio: "Maëlle Salmon is a R(esearch) Software Engineer, part-time with rOpenSci where she, among other things, maintains the guide [rOpenSci Packages: Development, Maintenance, and Peer Review](https://devguide.ropensci.org/). She also created the [R-hub blog](https://blog.r-hub.io) and co-wrote the book [HTTP testing in R](https://books.ropensci.org/http-testing) with [Scott Chamberlain](/author/scott-chamberlain). She lives in Nancy, France. Maëlle on [GitHub](https://github.com/maelle), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ma_salmon), [Website](https://masalmon.eu/), [rOpenSci](/author/maëlle-salmon/)."
    img: /img/team/maelle_salmon.jpg
  - name: Noam Ross
    bio: Noam Ross is Principal Scientist for Computational Research at [EcoHealth Alliance](https://www.ecohealthalliance.org/) and rOpenSci Software Review Lead. He co-leads the rOpenSci Statistical Software Testing and Peer Review project. Noam on [GitHub](https://github.com/noamross), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/noamross), [Website](https://www.noamross.net/)
    img: /img/team/noam_ross.png
tags:
  - community call
  - events
  - Software Peer Review
  - reproducibility
  - automation
  - reviewbot
  - pkgcheck
  - github
deets: |
    Meeting ID: 933 6999 6529
    
    Passcode: 088482
zoomurl: https://zoom.us/j/93369996529?pwd=a0EwcjVuaTJjSWtodk5uR1A1bVlaZz09
---

Software peer-review involves coordinating and tracking many moving parts: software submissions, testing and diagnostics, assignment of editors and reviewers, and logging the progression of submissions through revisions and acceptance.

On this call we will discuss how rOpenSci has worked with the The [Journal of Open Source Software](https://joss.theoj.org/) to extend JOSS’s approach of [chatops-driven publishing](https://www.arfon.org/chatops-driven-publishing) into a new GitHub chat-bot that manages our editorial process: assigning tasks, tagging issues, running tests on software submissions, and returning reports to reviewers and editors, all from the comfort of a GitHub issue comment. Chat-ops automation has been critical to JOSS’s success, and shows huge promise for automating even more tedious tasks like frequent software checks and compliance with best practices.

We will show how our new review bot improves the author and editor experience, demonstrate how other teams can use and customize the bot, and discuss how this approach can be extended to tackle other automation, code review, and reproducibility challenges.
