content/commcalls/2021-04-22/index.md, before:

---
title: Set Up Your Package to Foster a Community
dateStart: 2021-04-22T16:00:00 # UTC!!
dateEnd: 2021-04-22T17:00:00 # UTC!!
date: 2021-04-22T17:00:00 # UTC!! same as dateEnd
publishDate: 2021-03-24
description: rOpenSci tips for getting contributions to your R package
author:
  - Maëlle Salmon
  - Hugo Gruson
  - Steffi LaZerte
  - Stefanie Butland
organizer: Stefanie Butland
location: Community call (teleconference)
country: "\U0001F310"
attendees: All are welcome
slug: apr2021-pkg-community
speakers:  
  - name: Maëlle Salmon
    bio: "Maëlle Salmon is a R(esearch) Software Engineer, part-time with rOpenSci where she, among other things, maintains the guide [rOpenSci Packages: Development, Maintenance, and Peer Review](https://devguide.ropensci.org/). She also created the [R-hub blog](https://blog.r-hub.io) and co-wrote the book [HTTP testing in R](https://books.ropensci.org/http-testing) with [Scott Chamberlain](/author/scott-chamberlain). She lives in Nancy, France. Maëlle on [GitHub](https://github.com/maelle), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ma_salmon), [Website](https://masalmon.eu/), [rOpenSci](/author/maëlle-salmon/)."
    img: /img/team/maelle_salmon.jpg
  - name: Hugo Gruson
    bio: Hugo Gruson is an evolutionary biologist who fell in love with R and R package development during his PhD. After this, he moved to a Research Software Engineer job in Montpellier, France, to work full time on building tools for research in epidemiology. Hugo on [GitHub](https://github.com/Bisaloo), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/grusonh), [Website](https://www.normalesup.org/~hgruson/), [rOpenSci](/author/hugo-gruson/).
    img: /img/community/hugo-gruson.jpg
  - name: Steffi LaZerte
    bio: Steffi LaZerte is a consulting R programmer and teacher in Brandon, Canada, and part-time Community Assistant for rOpenSci. She co-authored the [rOpenSci Community Contributing Guide](https://contributing.ropensci.org/) with Stefanie Butland. Though her background is in Behavioral Ecology, her love of R drew her away from academia and into a career facilitating science with R. Steffi on [GitHub](https://github.com/steffilazerte), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/steffilazerte), [Website](https://steffilazerte.ca/), [rOpenSci](/author/steffi-lazerte/).
    img: /img/team/steffi-lazerte.jpg
  - name: Stefanie Butland
    bio: Stefanie Butland is rOpenSci's Community Manager, living in Kamloops, Canada. She created the [rOpenSci Community Contributing Guide](https://contributing.ropensci.org/), co-authored with Steffi LaZerte, that helps people match their motivations and skills to different ways to make code and non-code contributions. Stefanie on [GitHub](https://github.com/stefaniebutland), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/StefanieButland), [Website](https://stefaniebutland.netlify.app/), [rOpenSci](/author/stefanie-butland/).
    img: /img/team/stefanie_butland.jpg    
notes: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UpYoeMoPWR11JTmxYoypXkA5xvWgV-e4aXCy6pd-Ri8/
resources:
  - url: https://ropensci.org/blog/2021/04/28/commcall-pkg-community/
    name: Summary blog post
    details: by Sina Rüeger
  - url: https://pkg-comm.netlify.app/#/
    name: Maëlle Salmon's slides
    details:
  - url: https://bisaloo.github.io/pkgcommunity_commcall/
    name: Hugo Gruson's slides
    details:
  - url: https://steffilazerte.ca/Presentations/2021-04%20rOpenSci%20-%20Community/2021-04_rOpenSci_community.html
    name: Steffi LaZerte's slides
    details:
  - url: https://github.com/ropensci-org/community-calls/issues/21
    name: Topic discussion on GitHub
    details: Read the thread that led to this Community Call
  - url: https://github.com/ropensci/wateRinfo/blob/master/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md
    name: wateRinfo contributing guide
    details: Example file
  - url: https://github.com/ropensci/skimr/blob/master/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md#understanding-the-scope-of-skimr
    name: skimr contributing guide, section about scope
    details: Example file
  - url: https://github.com/ropensci/.github/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
    name: rOpenSci default code of conduct
    details: Example file
  - url: https://github.com/tidyverse/ggplot2/blob/master/GOVERNANCE.md
    name: ggplot2 governance file
    details: Example file
  - url: https://github.com/tidyverse/.github/blob/master/SUPPORT.md
    name: tidyverse default support file
    details: Example file
  - url: https://github.com/r-lib/cpp11#getting-help-
    name: cpp11 README section with a badge to a forum
    details: Example file   
  - url: https://github.com/rstudio/blogdown/issues/new/choose
    name: blogdown interface for new issues, source
    details: Example file  
  - url: https://docs.github.com/en/communities/setting-up-your-project-for-healthy-contributions/creating-a-default-community-health-file
    name: default community health files
    details: GitHub docs
  - url: https://docs.github.com/en/github/writing-on-github/using-saved-replies
    name: saving replies for your account
    details: GitHub docs
  - url: https://docs.github.com/en/github/managing-your-work-on-github/pinning-an-issue-to-your-repository
    name: pinning an issue to your repository
    details: GitHub docs
  - url: https://docs.github.com/en/communities/using-templates-to-encourage-useful-issues-and-pull-requests/configuring-issue-templates-for-your-repository
    name: configuring issue templates for your repository
    details: GitHub docs    
  - url: https://github.com/rstudio/blogdown/pull/432#pullrequestreview-368391904
    name: Example of a comment about style in a PR (blogdown)
    details: Communication example
  - url: https://github.com/r-lib/pkgdown/issues/1396#issuecomment-695848545
    name: Example of a nice no in an issue (pkgdown)
    details: Communication examples
  - url: https://pkgdown.r-lib.org/dev/articles/customization.html#layout
    name: pkgdown (dev version) for customizing what's in the sidebar and footer
    details: Other
  - url: https://style.tidyverse.org/
    name: tidyverse style guide
    details: Other
outputs:
- HTML
- Calendar  
vimeo:
  - id: '540502735'
tags:
  - community call
  - events
  - labelathon
  - github
  - community
deets: |
    Meeting ID: 981 5102 3535
    
    Passcode: 005223
zoomurl: https://zoom.us/j/98151023535?pwd=N0xEWDczbnI3WEhuWGxsVVNmbWlsUT09
---

rOpenSci puts ongoing effort into exploring and communicating how developers can best attract attention to their package (e.g. usage, citations, or feedback), or how to set up their repository to encourage the types of contributions they want. In this 1-hour community call, Maëlle Salmon, Hugo Gruson, and Steffi LaZerte will share tips and examples on how to do this! 

- What is the community of a package or project? 
- Include a Code of Conduct 
- What goes in your package contributing guide? Etiquette and setup
- Use your README to share your expectations with users and potential contributors
- Use issue templates
- Use issue labels to explicitly invite contributions (code or non-code) and user feedback
- Include a roadmap so potential contributors know where your package is going, what you plan to implement, and what you won’t
- What characteristics of a package or project make contributors keep coming back?

Come hear our best recommendations, and share your favorites. Stefanie Butland will moderate to get answers to your questions and we’ll have a collaborative notes doc to harness everyone's collective wisdom.

Index of video:
- 0:00 Stefanie Butland, Welcome and introductions
- 4:55 Maëlle Salmon, Set Up Your Package to Foster a Community
- 20:00 Hugo Gruson, My Journey from Package User to Package Developer… and how to invite more users to take this journey
- 32:28 Steffi LaZerte, Labelling Issues and the Labelathon
- 43:58 Q & A

## Do you think these are great ideas, but it's hard to set aside time to put them into practice?

We’re following up this Community Call with an experiment! 

Join us for 1.5 hours Thursday, April 29, 9 AM Pacific / 16:00 UTC for our first co-working [social “Label-athon”](/events/labelathon01/).

- Meet other package developers and rOpenSci staff in Zoom
- Work independently, implementing some of our recommendations for your own package
- Get answers to your questions 

At the end of each session we’ll tweet links to your “help wanted” issues to help you get attention to your project. 

Our experiment includes 4 label-athons (if y’all show up, we can do more) at alternating times to accommodate our community around the world. Thursdays April 29, May 13, May 27, June 10. 

Note: This community call will *not* include tips specific to *maintaining* a package. See the recording, summary post, and collaborative notes from our past [Community Call on Maintaining an R Package](/commcalls/2020-03-18/).

Commit message:

Add issue labels to resources

content/commcalls/2021-04-22/index.md, after:

---
title: Set Up Your Package to Foster a Community
dateStart: 2021-04-22T16:00:00 # UTC!!
dateEnd: 2021-04-22T17:00:00 # UTC!!
date: 2021-04-22T17:00:00 # UTC!! same as dateEnd
publishDate: 2021-03-24
description: rOpenSci tips for getting contributions to your R package
author:
  - Maëlle Salmon
  - Hugo Gruson
  - Steffi LaZerte
  - Stefanie Butland
organizer: Stefanie Butland
location: Community call (teleconference)
country: "\U0001F310"
attendees: All are welcome
slug: apr2021-pkg-community
speakers:  
  - name: Maëlle Salmon
    bio: "Maëlle Salmon is a R(esearch) Software Engineer, part-time with rOpenSci where she, among other things, maintains the guide [rOpenSci Packages: Development, Maintenance, and Peer Review](https://devguide.ropensci.org/). She also created the [R-hub blog](https://blog.r-hub.io) and co-wrote the book [HTTP testing in R](https://books.ropensci.org/http-testing) with [Scott Chamberlain](/author/scott-chamberlain). She lives in Nancy, France. Maëlle on [GitHub](https://github.com/maelle), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ma_salmon), [Website](https://masalmon.eu/), [rOpenSci](/author/maëlle-salmon/)."
    img: /img/team/maelle_salmon.jpg
  - name: Hugo Gruson
    bio: Hugo Gruson is an evolutionary biologist who fell in love with R and R package development during his PhD. After this, he moved to a Research Software Engineer job in Montpellier, France, to work full time on building tools for research in epidemiology. Hugo on [GitHub](https://github.com/Bisaloo), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/grusonh), [Website](https://www.normalesup.org/~hgruson/), [rOpenSci](/author/hugo-gruson/).
    img: /img/community/hugo-gruson.jpg
  - name: Steffi LaZerte
    bio: Steffi LaZerte is a consulting R programmer and teacher in Brandon, Canada, and part-time Community Assistant for rOpenSci. She co-authored the [rOpenSci Community Contributing Guide](https://contributing.ropensci.org/) with Stefanie Butland. Though her background is in Behavioral Ecology, her love of R drew her away from academia and into a career facilitating science with R. Steffi on [GitHub](https://github.com/steffilazerte), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/steffilazerte), [Website](https://steffilazerte.ca/), [rOpenSci](/author/steffi-lazerte/).
    img: /img/team/steffi-lazerte.jpg
  - name: Stefanie Butland
    bio: Stefanie Butland is rOpenSci's Community Manager, living in Kamloops, Canada. She created the [rOpenSci Community Contributing Guide](https://contributing.ropensci.org/), co-authored with Steffi LaZerte, that helps people match their motivations and skills to different ways to make code and non-code contributions. Stefanie on [GitHub](https://github.com/stefaniebutland), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/StefanieButland), [Website](https://stefaniebutland.netlify.app/), [rOpenSci](/author/stefanie-butland/).
    img: /img/team/stefanie_butland.jpg    
notes: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UpYoeMoPWR11JTmxYoypXkA5xvWgV-e4aXCy6pd-Ri8/
resources:
  - url: https://ropensci.org/blog/2021/04/28/commcall-pkg-community/
    name: Summary blog post
    details: by Sina Rüeger
  - url: https://pkg-comm.netlify.app/#/
    name: Maëlle Salmon's slides
    details:
  - url: https://bisaloo.github.io/pkgcommunity_commcall/
    name: Hugo Gruson's slides
    details:
  - url: https://steffilazerte.ca/Presentations/2021-04%20rOpenSci%20-%20Community/2021-04_rOpenSci_community.html
    name: Steffi LaZerte's slides
    details:
  - url: https://contributing.ropensci.org/resources.html#issues
    name: Contributing Guide - Issue labels
    details: Section on standard issue labels in the rOpenSci Contributing Guide
  - url: https://github.com/ropensci-org/community-calls/issues/21
    name: Topic discussion on GitHub
    details: Read the thread that led to this Community Call
  - url: https://github.com/ropensci/wateRinfo/blob/master/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md
    name: wateRinfo contributing guide
    details: Example file
  - url: https://github.com/ropensci/skimr/blob/master/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md#understanding-the-scope-of-skimr
    name: skimr contributing guide, section about scope
    details: Example file
  - url: https://github.com/ropensci/.github/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
    name: rOpenSci default code of conduct
    details: Example file
  - url: https://github.com/tidyverse/ggplot2/blob/master/GOVERNANCE.md
    name: ggplot2 governance file
    details: Example file
  - url: https://github.com/tidyverse/.github/blob/master/SUPPORT.md
    name: tidyverse default support file
    details: Example file
  - url: https://github.com/r-lib/cpp11#getting-help-
    name: cpp11 README section with a badge to a forum
    details: Example file   
  - url: https://github.com/rstudio/blogdown/issues/new/choose
    name: blogdown interface for new issues, source
    details: Example file  
  - url: https://docs.github.com/en/communities/setting-up-your-project-for-healthy-contributions/creating-a-default-community-health-file
    name: default community health files
    details: GitHub docs
  - url: https://docs.github.com/en/github/writing-on-github/using-saved-replies
    name: saving replies for your account
    details: GitHub docs
  - url: https://docs.github.com/en/github/managing-your-work-on-github/pinning-an-issue-to-your-repository
    name: pinning an issue to your repository
    details: GitHub docs
  - url: https://docs.github.com/en/communities/using-templates-to-encourage-useful-issues-and-pull-requests/configuring-issue-templates-for-your-repository
    name: configuring issue templates for your repository
    details: GitHub docs    
  - url: https://github.com/rstudio/blogdown/pull/432#pullrequestreview-368391904
    name: Example of a comment about style in a PR (blogdown)
    details: Communication example
  - url: https://github.com/r-lib/pkgdown/issues/1396#issuecomment-695848545
    name: Example of a nice no in an issue (pkgdown)
    details: Communication examples
  - url: https://pkgdown.r-lib.org/dev/articles/customization.html#layout
    name: pkgdown (dev version) for customizing what's in the sidebar and footer
    details: Other
  - url: https://style.tidyverse.org/
    name: tidyverse style guide
    details: Other
outputs:
- HTML
- Calendar  
vimeo:
  - id: '540502735'
tags:
  - community call
  - events
  - labelathon
  - github
  - community
deets: |
    Meeting ID: 981 5102 3535
    
    Passcode: 005223
zoomurl: https://zoom.us/j/98151023535?pwd=N0xEWDczbnI3WEhuWGxsVVNmbWlsUT09
---

rOpenSci puts ongoing effort into exploring and communicating how developers can best attract attention to their package (e.g. usage, citations, or feedback), or how to set up their repository to encourage the types of contributions they want. In this 1-hour community call, Maëlle Salmon, Hugo Gruson, and Steffi LaZerte will share tips and examples on how to do this! 

- What is the community of a package or project? 
- Include a Code of Conduct 
- What goes in your package contributing guide? Etiquette and setup
- Use your README to share your expectations with users and potential contributors
- Use issue templates
- Use issue labels to explicitly invite contributions (code or non-code) and user feedback
- Include a roadmap so potential contributors know where your package is going, what you plan to implement, and what you won’t
- What characteristics of a package or project make contributors keep coming back?

Come hear our best recommendations, and share your favorites. Stefanie Butland will moderate to get answers to your questions and we’ll have a collaborative notes doc to harness everyone's collective wisdom.

Index of video:
- 0:00 Stefanie Butland, Welcome and introductions
- 4:55 Maëlle Salmon, Set Up Your Package to Foster a Community
- 20:00 Hugo Gruson, My Journey from Package User to Package Developer… and how to invite more users to take this journey
- 32:28 Steffi LaZerte, Labelling Issues and the Labelathon
- 43:58 Q & A

## Do you think these are great ideas, but it's hard to set aside time to put them into practice?

We’re following up this Community Call with an experiment! 

Join us for 1.5 hours Thursday, April 29, 9 AM Pacific / 16:00 UTC for our first co-working [social “Label-athon”](/events/labelathon01/).

- Meet other package developers and rOpenSci staff in Zoom
- Work independently, implementing some of our recommendations for your own package
- Get answers to your questions 

At the end of each session we’ll tweet links to your “help wanted” issues to help you get attention to your project. 

Our experiment includes 4 label-athons (if y’all show up, we can do more) at alternating times to accommodate our community around the world. Thursdays April 29, May 13, May 27, June 10. 

Note: This community call will *not* include tips specific to *maintaining* a package. See the recording, summary post, and collaborative notes from our past [Community Call on Maintaining an R Package](/commcalls/2020-03-18/).
