archetypes/Rmd/index.md, before:

---
slug: "post-template"
title: Post Title in Title Case
# Delete the package_version line below if your post is not about a package
package_version: 0.1.0
author:
  - Author Name1
  - Author Name2
# Set the date below to the publication date of your post
date: 2020-03-10
# Minimal tags for a post about a community-contributed package 
# that has passed software peer review are listed below
# Consult the Technical Guidelines for information on choosing tags
tags:
  - Software Peer Review
  - packages
  - R
  - community
# The summary below will be used by e.g. Twitter cards
description: "A very short summary of your post (~ 100 characters)"
# If you have no preferred image for Twitter cards,
# delete the twitterImg line below 
# - Replace "blog" with "technotes" as needed
# - Note no "/" symbol before "blog" here
# - Note "/" between year/month/day
twitterImg: blog/2019/06/04/post-template/name-of-image.png
# 'output' is necessary to obtain index.md
# Do not commit index.html
output: 
  html_document:
    keep_md: true
---

This is the R Markdown (.Rmd) template for a blog post or tech note. 
To generate your post with just Markdown (.md), use that template instead.

Throughout this template, including the YAML, 
you should change "post-template" to the slug of your post, 
and "2019-06-04" to your publication date.

Save this file under /content/blog/YYYY-MM-DD-slug/index.Rmd in the local copy of your roweb3 fork.

The chunk below ensures your plots will be inserted in the same folder as your Rmd so you can submit the bundle (.Rmd, .md, images) to roweb3.

```{r setup, include=FALSE}
# Options to have images saved in the post folder
# And to disable symbols before output
knitr::opts_chunk$set(fig.path = "", comment = "")

# knitr hook to make images output use Hugo options
knitr::knit_hooks$set(
  plot = function(x, options) {
    hugoopts <- options$hugoopts
    paste0(
      "{{<figure src=",
      '"', x, '" ',
      if (!is.null(hugoopts)) {
        glue::glue_collapse(
          glue::glue('{names(hugoopts)}="{hugoopts}"'),
          sep = " "
        )
      },
      ">}}\n"
    )
  }
)

# knitr hook to use Hugo highlighting options
knitr::knit_hooks$set(
  source = function(x, options) {
  hlopts <- options$hlopts
    paste0(
      "```r ",
      if (!is.null(hlopts)) {
      paste0("{",
        glue::glue_collapse(
          glue::glue('{names(hlopts)}={hlopts}'),
          sep = ","
        ), "}"
        )
      },
      "\n", glue::glue_collapse(x, sep = "\n"), "\n```\n"
    )
  }
)
```

The figure paths in the resulting Markdown will already be valid so you won't need to edit the Markdown file.

## Section heading in sentence case

Citation of the primary literature[^1]. 

Citation of a website[^2]. 

Citation of an R package[^3].

### Subsection heading

We recommend the use of [Hugo shortcodes](https://gohugo.io/content-management/shortcodes/) to include images, tweets, videos, gists, etc. In the Rmd file they need to be between `<!--html_preserve-->` and `<!--/html_preserve-->`.

**Add an image** by using a Hugo shortcode. The image is saved under `/content/blog/YYYY-MM-DD-slug/name-of-image.png`.

<!--html_preserve-->
{{< figure src = "name-of-image.png" width = "400" alt = "this is the alternative text" >}}
<!--/html_preserve-->

Consult the Technical Guidelines for tips on changing image size, alignment, and for advice on alternative text.

Below is another image, a plot generated by a code chunk, so you might see how to add alternative text and other options in this case. You can also use [all options documented for the figure shortcode](https://gohugo.io/content-management/shortcodes/#figure) except for `src` that will be created automatically when knitting.

```{r chunkname, hugoopts=list(alt="alternative text please make it informative", caption="this is what this image shows, write it here or in the paragraph after the image as you prefer", width=300)}
plot(1:10)
```

Once this file is knitted the plot above will be inserted with the correct syntax.


**Embed a tweet** by using a Hugo shortcode. 

<!--html_preserve-->
{{< tweet 1138216112808529920 >}}
<!--/html_preserve-->


**Tweak code highlighting** Below you can see how to use Hugo [Chroma code highlighting options](https://gohugo.io/content-management/syntax-highlighting/#highlight-shortcode): highlight the 1st and 4th to 6th code lines, number lines as a table starting from 199.

```{r hl, hlopts = list(linenos='table',hl_lines='[1,"4-6"]',linenostart=199)}
a <- 1
a <- 1
a <- 1
a <- 1
a <- 1
a <- 1
a <- 1
```

**Add citation or footnote** text by using the format below 

[^1]: Sciaini, M., Fritsch, M., Scherer, C., & Simpkins, C. E. (2018). NLMR and landscapetools: An integrated environment for simulating and modifying neutral landscape models in R. Methods in Ecology and Evolution, 9(11), 2240-2248. <https://doi.org/10.1111/2041-210X.13076>
[^2]: Elin Waring, Michael Quinn, Amelia McNamara, Eduardo Arino de la Rubia, Hao Zhu and Shannon Ellis (2019). skimr: Compact and Flexible Summaries of Data. R package version 1.0.7. https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=skimr
[^3]: Hugo static site generator. https://gohugo.io/

Commit message:

Add twitter:image:alt in Twitter cards

archetypes/Rmd/index.md, after:

---
slug: "post-template"
title: Post Title in Title Case
# Delete the package_version line below if your post is not about a package
package_version: 0.1.0
author:
  - Author Name1
  - Author Name2
# Set the date below to the publication date of your post
date: 2020-03-10
# Minimal tags for a post about a community-contributed package 
# that has passed software peer review are listed below
# Consult the Technical Guidelines for information on choosing tags
tags:
  - Software Peer Review
  - packages
  - R
  - community
# The summary below will be used by e.g. Twitter cards
description: "A very short summary of your post (~ 100 characters)"
# If you have no preferred image for Twitter cards,
# delete the twitterImg and twitterAlt lines below 
# - Replace "blog" with "technotes" as needed
# - Note no "/" symbol before "blog" here
# - Note "/" between year/month/day
twitterImg: blog/2019/06/04/post-template/name-of-image.png
twitterAlt: "Alternative description of the image"
# 'output' is necessary to obtain index.md
# Do not commit index.html
output: 
  html_document:
    keep_md: true
---

This is the R Markdown (.Rmd) template for a blog post or tech note. 
To generate your post with just Markdown (.md), use that template instead.

Throughout this template, including the YAML, 
you should change "post-template" to the slug of your post, 
and "2019-06-04" to your publication date.

Save this file under /content/blog/YYYY-MM-DD-slug/index.Rmd in the local copy of your roweb3 fork.

The chunk below ensures your plots will be inserted in the same folder as your Rmd so you can submit the bundle (.Rmd, .md, images) to roweb3.

```{r setup, include=FALSE}
# Options to have images saved in the post folder
# And to disable symbols before output
knitr::opts_chunk$set(fig.path = "", comment = "")

# knitr hook to make images output use Hugo options
knitr::knit_hooks$set(
  plot = function(x, options) {
    hugoopts <- options$hugoopts
    paste0(
      "{{<figure src=",
      '"', x, '" ',
      if (!is.null(hugoopts)) {
        glue::glue_collapse(
          glue::glue('{names(hugoopts)}="{hugoopts}"'),
          sep = " "
        )
      },
      ">}}\n"
    )
  }
)

# knitr hook to use Hugo highlighting options
knitr::knit_hooks$set(
  source = function(x, options) {
  hlopts <- options$hlopts
    paste0(
      "```r ",
      if (!is.null(hlopts)) {
      paste0("{",
        glue::glue_collapse(
          glue::glue('{names(hlopts)}={hlopts}'),
          sep = ","
        ), "}"
        )
      },
      "\n", glue::glue_collapse(x, sep = "\n"), "\n```\n"
    )
  }
)
```

The figure paths in the resulting Markdown will already be valid so you won't need to edit the Markdown file.

## Section heading in sentence case

Citation of the primary literature[^1]. 

Citation of a website[^2]. 

Citation of an R package[^3].

### Subsection heading

We recommend the use of [Hugo shortcodes](https://gohugo.io/content-management/shortcodes/) to include images, tweets, videos, gists, etc. In the Rmd file they need to be between `<!--html_preserve-->` and `<!--/html_preserve-->`.

**Add an image** by using a Hugo shortcode. The image is saved under `/content/blog/YYYY-MM-DD-slug/name-of-image.png`.

<!--html_preserve-->
{{< figure src = "name-of-image.png" width = "400" alt = "this is the alternative text" >}}
<!--/html_preserve-->

Consult the Technical Guidelines for tips on changing image size, alignment, and for advice on alternative text.

Below is another image, a plot generated by a code chunk, so you might see how to add alternative text and other options in this case. You can also use [all options documented for the figure shortcode](https://gohugo.io/content-management/shortcodes/#figure) except for `src` that will be created automatically when knitting.

```{r chunkname, hugoopts=list(alt="alternative text please make it informative", caption="this is what this image shows, write it here or in the paragraph after the image as you prefer", width=300)}
plot(1:10)
```

Once this file is knitted the plot above will be inserted with the correct syntax.


**Embed a tweet** by using a Hugo shortcode. 

<!--html_preserve-->
{{< tweet 1138216112808529920 >}}
<!--/html_preserve-->


**Tweak code highlighting** Below you can see how to use Hugo [Chroma code highlighting options](https://gohugo.io/content-management/syntax-highlighting/#highlight-shortcode): highlight the 1st and 4th to 6th code lines, number lines as a table starting from 199.

```{r hl, hlopts = list(linenos='table',hl_lines='[1,"4-6"]',linenostart=199)}
a <- 1
a <- 1
a <- 1
a <- 1
a <- 1
a <- 1
a <- 1
```

**Add citation or footnote** text by using the format below 

[^1]: Sciaini, M., Fritsch, M., Scherer, C., & Simpkins, C. E. (2018). NLMR and landscapetools: An integrated environment for simulating and modifying neutral landscape models in R. Methods in Ecology and Evolution, 9(11), 2240-2248. <https://doi.org/10.1111/2041-210X.13076>
[^2]: Elin Waring, Michael Quinn, Amelia McNamara, Eduardo Arino de la Rubia, Hao Zhu and Shannon Ellis (2019). skimr: Compact and Flexible Summaries of Data. R package version 1.0.7. https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=skimr
[^3]: Hugo static site generator. https://gohugo.io/
