content/events/2021-04-29-labelathon01.md, before:

---
title: Social Label-athon
dateStart: 2021-04-29T16:00:00 # UTC!!
dateEnd: 2021-04-29T19:00:00 # UTC!!
date: 2021-04-29T19:00:00 # UTC!! same as dateEnd
description: Set up your package to foster a community, together with friends
location: 'online' # free text
slug: "labelathon01"
country: "\U0001F310" # emoji
outputs: 
- HTML
- Calendar 
attendees:
  - Steffi LaZerte
  - Stefanie Butland
deets: |
    Meeting ID: 916 3383 5045
    
    Passcode: 253788
    
    [Registration](https://form.jotform.com/210906095013043) is encouraged.
zoomurl: https://zoom.us/j/91633835045?pwd=MkkvOUVHQU84TEhTOVpaYU1KYU5Xdz09
# resources: # can be added later, one entry per talk (don't add while still empty, add once there are resources)
#  - title: 
#    speaker: 
#    slides: 
---

We’re following up our Community Call - [Set Up Your Package to Foster a Community](/commcalls/apr2021-pkg-community/) - with an experiment!

**Join us for 1.5 hours Thursday, April 29, 9 AM Pacific / 16:00 UTC for our first co-working “label-athon”.**

- Meet other package developers and rOpenSci staff in Zoom
- Work independently, implementing some of [our recommendations](/commcalls/apr2021-pkg-community/) for your own package
- Get answers to your questions

At the end of the session we’ll tweet links to your “[help wanted](https://github.com/search?q=org%3Aropensci+label%3A%22help+wanted%22+state%3Aopen&type=Issues)” issues to help you get attention to your project.

Our experiment includes 4 label-athons (if y’all show up, we can do more) at alternating times to accommodate our community around the world. Thursdays April 29, May 13, May 27, June 10.

[Registration](https://form.jotform.com/210906095013043) is encouraged.

Commit message:

add examples to add/modify pkg

content/events/2021-04-29-labelathon01.md, after:

---
title: Social Label-athon
dateStart: 2021-04-29T16:00:00 # UTC!!
dateEnd: 2021-04-29T19:00:00 # UTC!!
date: 2021-04-29T19:00:00 # UTC!! same as dateEnd
description: Set up your package to foster a community, together with friends
location: 'online' # free text
slug: "labelathon01"
country: "\U0001F310" # emoji
outputs: 
- HTML
- Calendar 
attendees:
  - Steffi LaZerte
  - Stefanie Butland
deets: |
    Meeting ID: 916 3383 5045
    
    Passcode: 253788
    
    [Registration](https://form.jotform.com/210906095013043) is encouraged.
zoomurl: https://zoom.us/j/91633835045?pwd=MkkvOUVHQU84TEhTOVpaYU1KYU5Xdz09
# resources: # can be added later, one entry per talk (don't add while still empty, add once there are resources)
#  - title: 
#    speaker: 
#    slides: 
---

We’re following up our Community Call - [Set Up Your Package to Foster a Community](/commcalls/apr2021-pkg-community/) - with an experiment!

**Join us for 1.5 hours Thursday, April 29, 9 AM Pacific / 16:00 UTC for our first co-working “label-athon”.**

- Meet other package developers and rOpenSci staff in Zoom
- Work independently, implementing some of [our recommendations](/commcalls/apr2021-pkg-community/) for what you can add/modify in your own package to encourage community participation
  - Code of Conduct
  - Contributing guide 
  - Roadmap and expectations
  - Open and label issues to invite contributions
- Get answers to your questions

At the end of the session we’ll tweet links to your “[help wanted](https://github.com/search?q=org%3Aropensci+label%3A%22help+wanted%22+state%3Aopen&type=Issues)” issues to help you get attention to your project.

Our experiment includes 4 label-athons (if y’all show up, we can do more) at alternating times to accommodate our community around the world. Thursdays April 29, May 13, May 27, June 10.

[Registration](https://form.jotform.com/210906095013043) is encouraged.
