content/events/2021-09-07-coworking-2021-09.md, before:

---
title: Social Co-Working
dateStart: 2021-09-07T16:00:00 # UTC!!
dateEnd: 2021-09-07T18:00:00 # UTC!!
date: 2021-09-07T18:00:00 # UTC!! same as dateEnd
description: Co-working together for productivity and socialization
location: 'online' # free text
slug: "coworking-2021-09"
country: "\U0001F310" # emoji
outputs: 
- HTML
- Calendar 
attendees:
  - Steffi LaZerte
  - Stefanie Butland
deets: |
    Meeting ID: 916 3383 5045
    
    Passcode: 253788
---

**Join us for 2 hours Tuesday, September 7th, 9 AM Pacific / 16:00 UTC for our first official Social Co-Working event.**

Following our label-athon experiments we will be hosting [Social Co-Working sessions](/blog/2021/08/17/co-working-sessions/) on the first Tuesday of the month. 


- Meet other package developers and rOpenSci staff in Zoom
- Co-work independently on work related to R
  - Plan out that package you've always wanted to create
  - Work on packages that tend to be neglected
  - Make your packages more contributor-friendly (create issues, write a road map, etc.)
  - What ever you need to get done!
- Get answers to your questions
  - Ask rOpenSci staff
  - Ask your fellow developers
  - Discuss your work, best practices, or get advice and resources
- Answer other developers questions!

Commit message:

Fix coworking from co-working

content/events/2021-09-07-coworking-2021-09.md, after:

---
title: Social Coworking
dateStart: 2021-09-07T16:00:00 # UTC!!
dateEnd: 2021-09-07T18:00:00 # UTC!!
date: 2021-09-07T18:00:00 # UTC!! same as dateEnd
description: Coworking together for productivity and socialization
location: 'online' # free text
slug: "coworking-2021-09"
country: "\U0001F310" # emoji
outputs: 
- HTML
- Calendar 
attendees:
  - Steffi LaZerte
  - Stefanie Butland
deets: |
    Meeting ID: 916 3383 5045
    
    Passcode: 253788
---

**Join us for 2 hours Tuesday, September 7th, 9 AM Pacific / 16:00 UTC for our first official Social Coworking event.**

Following our label-athon experiments we will be hosting [Social Coworking sessions](/blog/2021/08/17/coworking-sessions/) on the first Tuesday of the month. 


- Meet other package developers and rOpenSci staff in Zoom
- Cowork independently on work related to R
  - Plan out that package you've always wanted to create
  - Work on packages that tend to be neglected
  - Make your packages more contributor-friendly (create issues, write a road map, etc.)
  - What ever you need to get done!
- Get answers to your questions
  - Ask rOpenSci staff
  - Ask your fellow developers
  - Discuss your work, best practices, or get advice and resources
- Answer other developers questions!
