content/events/2022-11-01-coworking-2022-11.md, before:

---
title: Social Coworking and Office Hours - Champions Program Application Clinic
dateStart: 2022-09-06T16:00:00 # UTC!!
dateEnd: 2022-09-06T18:00:00 # UTC!!
date: 2022-09-06T18:00:00 # UTC!! same as dateEnd
description: Monthly coworking for productivity, asking questions, socializing
location: 'online' # free text
slug: "coworking-2022-11"
country: "\U0001F310" # emoji
ropensci: yes
outputs: 
- HTML
- Calendar 
attendees:
  - Yanina Bellini Saibene
  - Steffi LaZerte
deets: |
    Meeting ID: 913 2825 6625
    
    Passcode: 512767
zoomurl: https://zoom.us/j/91328256625?pwd=WGVDdWpGdnhWWTFvZkZVTkNzWElNQT09   
---

<!--
```{r}
d <- lubridate::ymd_hms("2022-11-01 09:00:00", tz = "America/Vancouver")
lubridate::with_tz(d, "UTC")
lubridate::with_tz(d, "America/Winnipeg")
```
-->

**Join us for 2 hours Tuesday, November 1st, 9 AM North American Pacific / 16:00 UTC for [Social Coworking + Office Hours](/blog/2021/08/17/coworking-sessions/)**

This month we have a special session operating as an Application Clinic for 
the Champions Program with our community manager, **Yanina Bellini Saibene**, 
as co-host!

Come for the full 2 hrs or only as long as you need!

### Cowork...

- Prepare your application for the Champions Program: Do you have questions about the program?, Do you have specific questions or need some thoughts and feedback on your applications before you submit them? Join this session to ask them directly to the rOpenSci team.
- Cowork independently on work related to R
  - Plan out that package you've always wanted to create
  - Work on packages that tend to be neglected
  - What ever you need to get done!
  
### Socialize/Network...

- Meet co-host **Yanina Bellini Saibene**, and chat about the Champions Program and how to apply
- Meet other R users and rOpenSci staff in Zoom
- Get answers to your questions
  - Ask your hosts
  - Ask your fellow attendees
- Answer other attendees' questions!

We host [Social Coworking + Office Hours](/blog/2021/08/17/coworking-sessions/) on the first Tuesday of each month, alternating times to accommodate different parts of the world.

Commit message:

Switch up the frame work a bit

content/events/2022-11-01-coworking-2022-11.md, after:

---
title: Social Coworking and Office Hours - Champions Program Application Clinic
dateStart: 2022-09-06T16:00:00 # UTC!!
dateEnd: 2022-09-06T18:00:00 # UTC!!
date: 2022-09-06T18:00:00 # UTC!! same as dateEnd
description: Monthly coworking for productivity, asking questions, socializing
location: 'online' # free text
slug: "coworking-2022-11"
country: "\U0001F310" # emoji
ropensci: yes
outputs: 
- HTML
- Calendar 
attendees:
  - Yanina Bellini Saibene
  - Steffi LaZerte
deets: |
    Meeting ID: 913 2825 6625
    
    Passcode: 512767
zoomurl: https://zoom.us/j/91328256625?pwd=WGVDdWpGdnhWWTFvZkZVTkNzWElNQT09   
---

<!--
```{r}
d <- lubridate::ymd_hms("2022-11-01 09:00:00", tz = "America/Vancouver")
lubridate::with_tz(d, "UTC")
lubridate::with_tz(d, "America/Winnipeg")
```
-->

**Join us for 2 hours Tuesday, November 1st, 9 AM North American Pacific / 16:00 UTC for [Social Coworking + Office Hours](/blog/2021/08/17/coworking-sessions/)**

This month we have a special session operating as an Application Clinic for 
the Champions Program with our community manager, **Yanina Bellini Saibene**, 
as co-host!

Come for the full 2 hrs or only as long as you need!

### Cowork and Socialize/Network

- Prepare your application for the Champions Program!
- Meet co-host **Yanina Bellini Saibene** to chat about the Champions Program
  - Do you have questions about the program?
  - Do you have specific questions about the application?
  - Do you need some thoughts and feedback on your application before you submit it? 
  - Join this session to ask your questions directly to the rOpenSci team.
- Feel free to join us for general coworking as well!

We host [Social Coworking + Office Hours](/blog/2021/08/17/coworking-sessions/) on the first Tuesday of each month, alternating times to accommodate different parts of the world.
