---
title: Social Coworking and Office Hours - Why be an R package reviewer?
dateStart: 2022-05-03T16:00:00 # UTC!!
dateEnd: 2022-05-03T18:00:00 # UTC!!
date: 2022-05-03T18:00:00 # UTC!! same as dateEnd
description: Monthly coworking for productivity, asking questions, socializing
location: 'online' # free text
slug: "coworking-2022-05"
country: "\U0001F310" # emoji
ropensci: yes
outputs: 
- HTML
- Calendar 
attendees:
  - François Michonneau
  - Steffi LaZerte
author:
  - François Michonneau
deets: |
    Meeting ID: 913 2825 6625
    
    Passcode: 512767
zoomurl: https://zoom.us/j/91328256625?pwd=WGVDdWpGdnhWWTFvZkZVTkNzWElNQT09   
---

<!--
```{r}
d <- lubridate::ymd_hms("2022-05-03 09:00:00", tz = "America/Vancouver")
lubridate::with_tz(d, "UTC")
```
-->

**Join us for 2 hours Tuesday, May 3rd, 9 AM North American Pacific / 16:00 UTC for<br>[Social Coworking + Office Hours](/blog/2021/08/17/coworking-sessions/)**

This May we're focusing on the theme **Why be an R package reviewer?** with community host
**François Michonneau**, reviewer for rOpenSci Software Peer Review, Senior Director of Technology at The Carpentries, as well as maintainer of rOpenSci package [rotl](https://docs.ropensci.org/rotl/).

Come for the full 2 hrs or only as long as you need!

### Cowork...

- Prepare an R package for rOpenSci software review
- Already in review? Respond to reviewer comments!
- Already a reviewer? Work on a review you have scheduled!
- Cowork independently on work related to R
  - Plan out that package you've always wanted to create
  - Work on packages that tend to be neglected
  - What ever you need to get done!
  
### Socialize/Network...

- Meet community host, **François Michonneau**, and ask what it's like to be a reviewer. Pros and cons? Tips and tricks?
- Meet other package developers and rOpenSci staff in Zoom
- Get answers to your questions
  - Ask your hosts
  - Ask your fellow developers
  - Discuss your work, best practices, or get advice and resources
- Answer other developers questions!

We host [Social Coworking + Office Hours](/blog/2021/08/17/coworking-sessions/) on the first Tuesday of each month, alternating times to accommodate different parts of the world.