content/events/2023-08-01-coworking-2023-08.md, before:

---
title: Social Coworking and Office Hours - Spatial data in R
dateStart: 2023-08-01T16:00:00 # UTC!!
dateEnd: 2023-08-01T18:00:00 # UTC!!
date: 2023-08-01T18:00:00 # UTC!! same as dateEnd
description: Monthly coworking for productivity, asking questions, socializing
location: 'online' # free text
slug: "coworking-2023-08"
country: "🌐" # emoji
ropensci: yes
outputs:
  - HTML
  - Calendar
attendees:
  - Mike Mahoney
  - Steffi LaZerte
author:
  - Mike Mahoney
deets: |
    Meeting ID: 913 2825 6625
    Passcode: 512767
zoomurl: https://zoom.us/j/91328256625?pwd=WGVDdWpGdnhWWTFvZkZVTkNzWElNQT09
---

<!--
```{r}
d <- lubridate::ymd_hms('2023-08-01 09:00:00', tz = 'America/Vancouver')
lubridate::with_tz(d, 'UTC')
lubridate::with_tz(d, 'America/Winnipeg')
```
-->

**Join us for 2 hours Tuesday August 01, 09:00 Americas Pacific (16:00 UTC) for 
[Social Coworking + Office Hours](/blog/2023/06/21/coworking/)**

This month we're focusing on the theme **Spatial data in R** 
with community host **Mike Mahoney**, maintainer of several spatial packages with
rOpenSci such as [waywiser](https://docs.ropensci.org/waywiser/), 
[terrainr](https://docs.ropensci.org/terrainr/) and 
[geojsonio](https://docs.ropensci.org/geojsonio/), 
as well as [spatialsample](https://spatialsample.tidymodels.org/).

Come for the full 2 hrs or only as long as you need!

### Cowork

- Work on a project related to spatial data
- Explore R packages for working with spatial data
- Cowork independently on work related to R
    - Plan out that package you’ve always wanted to create
    - Work on packages that tend to be neglected
    - What ever you need to get done!

### Socialize/Network

- Meet community host, **Mike Mahoney**, and discuss aspects of working with spatial data in R.
- Meet other R users and rOpenSci staff in Zoom
- Get answers to your questions
    - Ask your hosts
    - Ask your fellow coworkers
    - Discuss your work, best practices, or get advice and resources
- Answer other coworkers' questions!

We host 
[Social Coworking + Office Hours](/blog/2023/06/21/coworking/) 
on the first Tuesday of each month, alternating among timezones to 
accommodate different parts of the world.

Commit message:

start work on coworking page

content/events/2023-08-01-coworking-2023-08.md, after:

---
title: Social Coworking and Office Hours - Spatial data in R
coworking: true
dateStart: 2023-08-01T16:00:00 # UTC!!
dateEnd: 2023-08-01T18:00:00 # UTC!!
date: 2023-08-01T18:00:00 # UTC!! same as dateEnd
description: Work on a project related to spatial data; Explore R packages for working with spatial data; Cowork independently on work related to R!
location: 'online' # free text
slug: "coworking-2023-08"
country: "🌐" # emoji
ropensci: yes
outputs:
  - HTML
  - Calendar
attendees:
  - Mike Mahoney
  - Steffi LaZerte
author:
  - Mike Mahoney
deets: |
    Meeting ID: 913 2825 6625
    Passcode: 512767
zoomurl: https://zoom.us/j/91328256625?pwd=WGVDdWpGdnhWWTFvZkZVTkNzWElNQT09
coworking: true
---

<!--
```{r}
d <- lubridate::ymd_hms('2023-08-01 09:00:00', tz = 'America/Vancouver')
lubridate::with_tz(d, 'UTC')
lubridate::with_tz(d, 'America/Winnipeg')
```
-->

**Join us for 2 hours Tuesday August 01, 09:00 Americas Pacific (16:00 UTC) for 
[Social Coworking + Office Hours](/blog/2023/06/21/coworking/)**

This month we're focusing on the theme **Spatial data in R** 
with community host **Mike Mahoney**, maintainer of several spatial packages with
rOpenSci such as [waywiser](https://docs.ropensci.org/waywiser/), 
[terrainr](https://docs.ropensci.org/terrainr/) and 
[geojsonio](https://docs.ropensci.org/geojsonio/), 
as well as [spatialsample](https://spatialsample.tidymodels.org/).

Come for the full 2 hrs or only as long as you need!

### Cowork

- Work on a project related to spatial data
- Explore R packages for working with spatial data
- Cowork independently on work related to R
    - Plan out that package you’ve always wanted to create
    - Work on packages that tend to be neglected
    - What ever you need to get done!

### Socialize/Network

- Meet community host, **Mike Mahoney**, and discuss aspects of working with spatial data in R.
- Meet other R users and rOpenSci staff in Zoom
- Get answers to your questions
    - Ask your hosts
    - Ask your fellow coworkers
    - Discuss your work, best practices, or get advice and resources
- Answer other coworkers' questions!

We host 
[Social Coworking + Office Hours](/blog/2023/06/21/coworking/) 
on the first Tuesday of each month, alternating among timezones to 
accommodate different parts of the world.
