---
title: "Fostering Diversity and Sustainability in the Open Source Scientific Software Community. The rOpenSci Champions Program"
dateStart: 2024-02-10T10:00:00 # UTC!!
dateEnd: 2024-02-10T10:20:00 # UTC!!
date: 2024-02-10T10:20:00 # UTC!! same as dateEnd
description: "Yani share the first pilot year of the rOpenSci Champions Program at Open Research Devroom / Online FOSSDEM"
slug: "OPDevroom-2024"
ropensci: no
location: "online"
country: "online"
outputs: 
- HTML
- Calendar 
tags: 
- champions program
author:
- Yanina Bellini Saibene
attendees:
- Yanina Bellini Saibene
resources: # can be added later, one entry per talk (don't add while still empty, add once there are resources)
  - title: "Fostering Diversity and Sustainability in the Open Source Scientific Software Community. The rOpenSci Champions Program"
    speaker: Yanina Bellini Saibene
    slides: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1hu6Zn-ObHnBqBPH4YwvQp1YvhIBZoVEMwi57Jq53Bek/
    language: en  
---

Research software plays a crucial role in advancing knowledge and innovation, and its development should be inclusive and representative of the diverse communities it serves. Unfortunately, the R and research software communities face a lack of diversity, with developers predominantly being white, male, and from a limited number of countries. This lack of inclusivity raises concerns about the long-term sustainability and utility of projects. In response to this challenge, the rOpenSci Champions Program specifically targets individuals from underrepresented groups who are keen on contributing to rOpenSci and the broader open science ecosystem. In this talk, we will share the motivations behind the creation of the rOpenSci Champions Program, exploring its goals, structure, and the opportunities it provides for participants. We will share insights gained from the implementation of the program’s pilot phase, highlighting key outcomes, success stories, and lessons learned. Attendees will gain a deeper understanding of the strategies employed to foster a more inclusive and diverse developer community in the R ecosystem. By showcasing the rOpenSci Champions Program, this talk aims to inspire similar initiatives across the open source landscape and contribute to the ongoing dialogue on enhancing diversity, sustainability, and collaboration in research software development. Talk license:CC-BY.
