---
title: Social Coworking and Office Hours -- Ship your R package to the R-multiverse!
dateStart: 2025-10-07T16:00:00 # UTC!!
dateEnd: 2025-10-07T18:00:00 # UTC!!
date: 2025-10-07T18:00:00 # UTC!! same as dateEnd
description: Learn more about the R-multiverse and take some time to submit your own package!
coworking: true
notes: https://docs.google.com/document/d/17xr3b-DlsBF3ZLcxj05IMJtv-VVfeqaOcqIU9KSYctg/edit?usp=drivesdk
location: 'online' # free text
slug: 'coworking-2025-10'
country: "🌐" # emoji
ropensci: true
outputs:
  - HTML
  - Calendar
attendees:
  - Will Landau
  - Maëlle Salmon
  - Steffi LaZerte
author:
  - Will Landau
  - Maëlle Salmon
deets: |
    Meeting ID: 849 0838 1262
    Passcode: socialize
zoomurl: https://numfocus-org.zoom.us/j/84908381262?pwd=yLGDvE6xJYEJueL0bjxyup0JOU3CbL.1
---

**Join us for 2 hours Tuesday October 07, 09:00 Americas Pacific (16:00 UTC) for
[Social Coworking + Office Hours](/blog/2023/06/21/coworking/)**

This month we're focusing on the theme 
**Ship your R package to the [R-multiverse](https://r-multiverse.org)!**
with community host **Will Landau**, co-creator of R-multiverse and author of 
the [targets](https://docs.ropensci.org/targets) R package, 
and **Maëlle Salmon**, rOpenSci Research Software Engineer and one of the 
R-multiverse administrators.

During this coworking event, participants will learn about submitting packages
to the R-multiverse and will be encouraged to do so during the session 
(but regular coworkers are always welcome).

Afterwards, Maëlle will write an rOpenSci blog post about the event, 
highlighting how things went and which packages were submitted.

Come for the full 2 hrs or only as long as you need!

### Cowork

- Learn more about the [R-multiverse](https://r-multiverse.org)
- Submit your package to the [R-multiverse](https://r-multiverse.org)!
- Cowork independently on something related to R
- Cowork on whatever you need to get done!

### Socialize/Network

- Meet hosts, **Will Landau** and **Maëlle Salmon**, and learn more about the R-multiverse and how to submit your package.
- Meet other R users and rOpenSci staff in Zoom
- Get answers to your questions: Ask hosts or coworkers
- Discuss your work, best practices, or get advice and resources
- Answer other coworkers' questions!

We host [Social Coworking + Office Hours](/blog/2023/06/21/coworking/)
on the first Tuesday of each month, alternating among timezones to
accommodate different parts of the world.
