content/commcalls/2020-12-16/index.md, before:

---
title: The Wild World of Data Repositories
dateStart: 2020-12-16T18:00:00 # UTC!!
dateEnd: 2020-12-16T19:00:00 # UTC!!
date: 2020-12-16T19:00:00 # UTC!! same as dateEnd
publishDate: 2020-11-18
description: Experts will discuss types of data repositories, challenges in data deposition and reuse, vision for new tools
author:
  - Kara Woo
  - Daniella Lowenberg
  - Matt Jones
  - Carl Boettiger
  - Karthik Ram
organizer: Stefanie Butland
location: Community call (teleconference)
country: "\U0001F310"
attendees: All are welcome
slug: dec2020-datarepos
notes: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1YpPbJ-zxEGWtx3v69OKFx8URtoADbU-Km5a8xSbi4EI/
outputs:
- HTML
- Calendar 
vimeo:
  - id: '492310551'
resources:
  - url: https://github.com/ropensci-org/community-calls/issues/9
    name: Discussion on GitHub
    details: Read the thread that led to this Community Call
  - url: https://hash-archive.org/sources/hash://sha256/4b23d0beee973f0e07db059173101bfcc192b6d63956a01898f54f1f26f4191c
    name: Data Repositories for everyday use
    details: Carl Boettiger slides 
  - url: https://ram.berkeley.edu/blog/ddd/
    name: Enabling culture change for meaningful data sharing
    details: post by Karthik Ram with the COS culture change pyramid juxtaposed with current policies
  - url: https://datadryad.org/api/v2/docs/
    name: Dryad API
    details: 
  - url: https://dataoneorg.github.io/Education/
    name: DataONE Skill Building Hub
    details: 
  - url: https://vimeo.com/channels/1580244/videos/sort:plays/format:thumbnail
    name: Arctic Data Center Video Tutorials
    details: 
  - url: https://dmtclearinghouse.esipfed.org/
    name: ESIP Data Management Training Clearinghouse
    details: 
  - url: https://docs.ropensci.org/rdryad/
    name: rdryad package
    details: interface with the Dryad data repository
  - url: https://github.com/DataONEorg/rdataone/
    name: rdataone package
    details: R interface to the DataONE network of data repositories
  - url: https://docs.ropensci.org/EML/
    name: EML package
    details: Read and Write Ecological Metadata Language Files
  - url: https://docs.ropensci.org/datapack/
    name: datapack package
    details: A Flexible Container to Transport and Manipulate Data and Associated Resources
  - url: https://github.com/NCEAS/metajam
    name: Metajam package
    details: R package to bring data and metadata into R (relying on the DataONE API)
  - url: https://docs.ropensci.org/DataPackageR/
    name: DataPackageR package
    details: Construct Reproducible Analytic Data Sets as R Packages
  - url: https://github.com/cboettig/contentid
    name: contentid package
    details: R package for working with Content Identifiers
  - url: https://www.dataone.org/webinars/iterative-forecasts/
    name: Content-based Identifiers for Iterative Forecasts - A Proposal
    details: DataONE webinar by Carl Boettiger
  - url: https://fairsharing.org/collection/GeneralRepositoryComparison
    name: General Repository Comparison chart
    details: FAIRSHARING (from NIH workshop)
  - url: https://zenodo.org/record/3946720#.X43LrebiuUk
    name: RDA Generalist Repository Comparison Chart
    details: 
  - url: https://osf.io/m2bce/
    name: Data Repository Selection - Criteria That Matter
    details: 
  - url: https://guidelines.openaire.eu/en/latest/data/index.html
    name: OpenAIRE Guidelines for Data Archives
    details:    
  - url: https://doi.org/10.1080/00031305.2017.1375989
    name: Data Organization in Spreadsheets
    details: Karl W. Broman & Kara H. Woo (2018) The American Statistician, 72:1, 2-10
  - url: https://doi.org/10.5334/dsj-2019-052
    name: The History and Future of Data Citation in Practice
    details: Parsons MA, Duerr RE, Jones MB (2019) Data Science Journal, 18(1):52
  - url: https://arxiv.org/abs/2002.11626
    name: A Realistic Guide to Making Data Available Alongside Code to Improve Reproducibility
    details: arXiv preprint by Nicholas Tierney, Karthik Ram
  - url: https://doi.org/10.1177/2053951719836258
    name: Enforcing public data archiving policies in academic publishing. A study of ecology journals
    details: Sholler D, Ram K, Boettiger C, Katz DS (2019) Big Data & Society.
  - url: https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0230416
    name: The citation advantage of linking publications to research data
    details: Colavizza G, Hrynaszkiewicz I, Staden I, Whitaker K, McGillivray B (2020) PLoS ONE 15(4), e0230416. 
speakers:
  - name: Kara Woo
    bio: Kara Woo is a Principal Bioinformatics Engineer at [Sage Bionetworks](http://sagebionetworks.org/) where she leads a team of developers building tools and infrastructure for open science. Kara is a member of the rOpenSci Code of Conduct committee. Kara on [GitHub](https://github.com/karawoo), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/kara_woo), [Website](https://karawoo.com/)
    img: kara-woo.jpg
  - name: Daniella Lowenberg
    bio: Daniella Lowenberg is the Product Manager at [Dryad](https://datadryad.org/) and Principal Investigator of [Make Data Count](https://makedatacount.org/) within the California Digital Library at University of California. Daniella on [GitHub](https://github.com/dlowenberg), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/danilowenberg)
    img: daniella-lowenberg.jpg
  - name: Matt Jones
    bio: Matt Jones is Director of Informatics R&D at the National Center for Ecological Analysis and Synthesis ([NCEAS](https://www.nceas.ucsb.edu/)), Principal Investigator of the [NSF Arctic Data Center](https://arcticdata.io/), and Director of [DataONE](https://www.dataone.org/) at University of California Santa Barbara. Matt on [GitHub](https://github.com/mbjones), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/metamattj), [Website](http://matt.magisa.org/)
    img: /img/team/matt-jones.jpg
  - name: Carl Boettiger
    bio: Carl Boettiger is Assistant Professor in the [Department of Environmental Science, Policy and Management at UC Berkeley](http://ourenvironment.berkeley.edu/), a Co-founder and strategic advisor of rOpenSci. Carl on [GitHub](https://github.com/cboettig), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/cboettig), [Website](https://www.carlboettiger.info/)
    img: /img/team/carl.jpg
  - name: Karthik Ram
    bio: Karthik Ram is a Senior Research Scientist with the Berkeley Institute for Data Science, Project Lead and Co-founder of rOpenSci, Editor for rOpenSci Software Peer Review. He has a PhD in Ecology and Evolution. Karthik on [GitHub](https://github.com/karthik), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/\_inundata), [Website](http://karthik.io/)
    img: /img/team/karthik-ram.png
tags:
  - community call
  - events
  - piggyback
  - dryad
  - rdryad
  - dataone
  - arctic data center
  - zenodo
deets: |
    Meeting ID: 922 9890 9939
    
    Passcode: 896415
zoomurl: https://zoom.us/j/92298909939?pwd=MERubjdNUUw2aWp6RUFqSHllR01adz09
---

Index of video:

- 0:00 Welcome and introduction
- 7:37 Daniella Lowenberg
- 12:06 Matt Jones
- 18:08 Kara Woo
- 26:29 Carl Boettiger
- 33:45 Karthik Ram
- 41:32 Q & A 

See below for speaker bios and resources including collaborative notes from the call.

There is no one-size-fits-all protocol for depositing your research data into a public repository in a way that maximizes its reuse and citation. We've assembled a panel that will help you understand the issues and opportunities for developing new tools and documentation. 

This 1-hour event, moderated by Kara Woo, includes 5 speakers and 20 minutes for Q & A on:

* Where and how to deposit data (or data + software!)
* Challenges in data deposition for reuse
* How to reuse data
* Where are the gaps?

Speakers will cover nuances of general and domain-specific repositories (Dryad, the DataONE federation of repositories, Arctic Data Center), what curators look for, what to do when you want to deposit both data and software, designing tools to help researchers provide the right metadata to maximize reuse, making data reuse easier with R tools like [piggyback](https://docs.ropensci.org/piggyback/), and their vision for new tools and documentation.

All are welcome.

Commit message:

add dryad zenodo info and time of Kara's intro

content/commcalls/2020-12-16/index.md, after:

---
title: The Wild World of Data Repositories
dateStart: 2020-12-16T18:00:00 # UTC!!
dateEnd: 2020-12-16T19:00:00 # UTC!!
date: 2020-12-16T19:00:00 # UTC!! same as dateEnd
publishDate: 2020-11-18
description: Experts will discuss types of data repositories, challenges in data deposition and reuse, vision for new tools
author:
  - Kara Woo
  - Daniella Lowenberg
  - Matt Jones
  - Carl Boettiger
  - Karthik Ram
organizer: Stefanie Butland
location: Community call (teleconference)
country: "\U0001F310"
attendees: All are welcome
slug: dec2020-datarepos
notes: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1YpPbJ-zxEGWtx3v69OKFx8URtoADbU-Km5a8xSbi4EI/
outputs:
- HTML
- Calendar 
vimeo:
  - id: '492310551'
resources:
  - url: https://github.com/ropensci-org/community-calls/issues/9
    name: Discussion on GitHub
    details: Read the thread that led to this Community Call
  - url: https://hash-archive.org/sources/hash://sha256/4b23d0beee973f0e07db059173101bfcc192b6d63956a01898f54f1f26f4191c
    name: Data Repositories for everyday use
    details: Carl Boettiger slides 
  - url: https://ram.berkeley.edu/blog/ddd/
    name: Enabling culture change for meaningful data sharing
    details: post by Karthik Ram with the COS culture change pyramid juxtaposed with current policies
  - url: https://datadryad.org/api/v2/docs/
    name: Dryad API
    details: 
  - url: https://blog.datadryad.org/2021/02/08/doing-it-right-a-better-approach-for-software-amp-data/
    name: Doing it Right: A Better Approach for Software & Data
    details: announcement of Dryad integration with Zenodo 
  - url: https://dataoneorg.github.io/Education/
    name: DataONE Skill Building Hub
    details: 
  - url: https://vimeo.com/channels/1580244/videos/sort:plays/format:thumbnail
    name: Arctic Data Center Video Tutorials
    details: 
  - url: https://dmtclearinghouse.esipfed.org/
    name: ESIP Data Management Training Clearinghouse
    details: 
  - url: https://docs.ropensci.org/rdryad/
    name: rdryad package
    details: interface with the Dryad data repository
  - url: https://github.com/DataONEorg/rdataone/
    name: rdataone package
    details: R interface to the DataONE network of data repositories
  - url: https://docs.ropensci.org/EML/
    name: EML package
    details: Read and Write Ecological Metadata Language Files
  - url: https://docs.ropensci.org/datapack/
    name: datapack package
    details: A Flexible Container to Transport and Manipulate Data and Associated Resources
  - url: https://github.com/NCEAS/metajam
    name: Metajam package
    details: R package to bring data and metadata into R (relying on the DataONE API)
  - url: https://docs.ropensci.org/DataPackageR/
    name: DataPackageR package
    details: Construct Reproducible Analytic Data Sets as R Packages
  - url: https://github.com/cboettig/contentid
    name: contentid package
    details: R package for working with Content Identifiers
  - url: https://www.dataone.org/webinars/iterative-forecasts/
    name: Content-based Identifiers for Iterative Forecasts - A Proposal
    details: DataONE webinar by Carl Boettiger
  - url: https://fairsharing.org/collection/GeneralRepositoryComparison
    name: General Repository Comparison chart
    details: FAIRSHARING (from NIH workshop)
  - url: https://zenodo.org/record/3946720#.X43LrebiuUk
    name: RDA Generalist Repository Comparison Chart
    details: 
  - url: https://osf.io/m2bce/
    name: Data Repository Selection - Criteria That Matter
    details: 
  - url: https://guidelines.openaire.eu/en/latest/data/index.html
    name: OpenAIRE Guidelines for Data Archives
    details:    
  - url: https://doi.org/10.1080/00031305.2017.1375989
    name: Data Organization in Spreadsheets
    details: Karl W. Broman & Kara H. Woo (2018) The American Statistician, 72:1, 2-10
  - url: https://doi.org/10.5334/dsj-2019-052
    name: The History and Future of Data Citation in Practice
    details: Parsons MA, Duerr RE, Jones MB (2019) Data Science Journal, 18(1):52
  - url: https://arxiv.org/abs/2002.11626
    name: A Realistic Guide to Making Data Available Alongside Code to Improve Reproducibility
    details: arXiv preprint by Nicholas Tierney, Karthik Ram
  - url: https://doi.org/10.1177/2053951719836258
    name: Enforcing public data archiving policies in academic publishing. A study of ecology journals
    details: Sholler D, Ram K, Boettiger C, Katz DS (2019) Big Data & Society.
  - url: https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0230416
    name: The citation advantage of linking publications to research data
    details: Colavizza G, Hrynaszkiewicz I, Staden I, Whitaker K, McGillivray B (2020) PLoS ONE 15(4), e0230416. 
speakers:
  - name: Kara Woo
    bio: Kara Woo is a Principal Bioinformatics Engineer at [Sage Bionetworks](http://sagebionetworks.org/) where she leads a team of developers building tools and infrastructure for open science. Kara is a member of the rOpenSci Code of Conduct committee. Kara on [GitHub](https://github.com/karawoo), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/kara_woo), [Website](https://karawoo.com/)
    img: kara-woo.jpg
  - name: Daniella Lowenberg
    bio: Daniella Lowenberg is the Product Manager at [Dryad](https://datadryad.org/) and Principal Investigator of [Make Data Count](https://makedatacount.org/) within the California Digital Library at University of California. Daniella on [GitHub](https://github.com/dlowenberg), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/danilowenberg)
    img: daniella-lowenberg.jpg
  - name: Matt Jones
    bio: Matt Jones is Director of Informatics R&D at the National Center for Ecological Analysis and Synthesis ([NCEAS](https://www.nceas.ucsb.edu/)), Principal Investigator of the [NSF Arctic Data Center](https://arcticdata.io/), and Director of [DataONE](https://www.dataone.org/) at University of California Santa Barbara. Matt on [GitHub](https://github.com/mbjones), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/metamattj), [Website](http://matt.magisa.org/)
    img: /img/team/matt-jones.jpg
  - name: Carl Boettiger
    bio: Carl Boettiger is Assistant Professor in the [Department of Environmental Science, Policy and Management at UC Berkeley](http://ourenvironment.berkeley.edu/), a Co-founder and strategic advisor of rOpenSci. Carl on [GitHub](https://github.com/cboettig), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/cboettig), [Website](https://www.carlboettiger.info/)
    img: /img/team/carl.jpg
  - name: Karthik Ram
    bio: Karthik Ram is a Senior Research Scientist with the Berkeley Institute for Data Science, Project Lead and Co-founder of rOpenSci, Editor for rOpenSci Software Peer Review. He has a PhD in Ecology and Evolution. Karthik on [GitHub](https://github.com/karthik), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/\_inundata), [Website](http://karthik.io/)
    img: /img/team/karthik-ram.png
tags:
  - community call
  - events
  - piggyback
  - dryad
  - rdryad
  - dataone
  - arctic data center
  - zenodo
deets: |
    Meeting ID: 922 9890 9939
    
    Passcode: 896415
zoomurl: https://zoom.us/j/92298909939?pwd=MERubjdNUUw2aWp6RUFqSHllR01adz09
---

Index of video:

- 0:00 Welcome
- 4:50 Topic introduction from Kara Woo
- 7:37 Daniella Lowenberg
- 12:06 Matt Jones
- 18:08 Kara Woo
- 26:29 Carl Boettiger
- 33:45 Karthik Ram
- 41:32 Q & A 

See below for speaker bios and resources including collaborative notes from the call.

There is no one-size-fits-all protocol for depositing your research data into a public repository in a way that maximizes its reuse and citation. We've assembled a panel that will help you understand the issues and opportunities for developing new tools and documentation. 

This 1-hour event, moderated by Kara Woo, includes 5 speakers and 20 minutes for Q & A on:

* Where and how to deposit data (or data + software!)
* Challenges in data deposition for reuse
* How to reuse data
* Where are the gaps?

Speakers will cover nuances of general and domain-specific repositories (Dryad, the DataONE federation of repositories, Arctic Data Center), what curators look for, what to do when you want to deposit both data and software, designing tools to help researchers provide the right metadata to maximize reuse, making data reuse easier with R tools like [piggyback](https://docs.ropensci.org/piggyback/), and their vision for new tools and documentation.

All are welcome.
