content/commcalls/2020-12-15/index.md, before:

---
title: Call Title in Title Case
dateStart: 2020-12-15T18:00:00 # UTC!!
dateEnd: 2020-12-15T19:00:00 # UTC!!
date: 2020-12-15T19:00:00 # UTC!! same as dateEnd
publishDate: 2020-11-16
description: Learn about types of data repositories, challenges in data deposition & reuse, vision for new tools
author:
  - Steffi LaZerte
  - Rich FitzJohn
organizer: Stefanie Butland
location: Community call (teleconference)
country: "\U0001F310"
attendees: All are welcome
slug: commcall-datarepos
notes: #link to collaborative notes
outputs: 
- HTML
- Calendar 
# vimeo:
#   - id: '378010209'
resources:
  - url: relative or absolute URL
    name: link text
    details: more info about the link
speakers:
  - name: Jane Doe
    bio: Jane Doe is a brilliant speaker.
    img: jane-doe.jpg
  - name: John FooBar
    bio: John FooBar knows their stuff.
    img: john-foobar.jpg
tags:
  - tag1
  - tag2
deets: "Zoom meeting ID 297 967 525. [Join Meeting](#)."
zoomurl: https://zoom.us/j/92298909939?pwd=MERubjdNUUw2aWp6RUFqSHllR01adz09
---

Testing different summary text

Commit message:

do not merge - testing commcall

content/commcalls/2020-12-15/index.md, after:

---
title: Call Title in Title Case
dateStart: 2020-12-15T18:00:00 # UTC!!
dateEnd: 2020-12-15T19:00:00 # UTC!!
date: 2020-12-15T19:00:00 # UTC!! same as dateEnd
publishDate: 2020-11-16
description: Learn about types of data repositories, challenges in data deposition & reuse, vision for new tools
author:
  - Steffi LaZerte
  - Rich FitzJohn
organizer: Stefanie Butland
location: Community call (teleconference)
country: "\U0001F310"
attendees: All are welcome
slug: commcall-datarepos
notes: #link to collaborative notes
outputs: 
- HTML
- Calendar 
# vimeo:
#   - id: '378010209'
resources:
  - url: relative or absolute URL
    name: link text
    details: more info about the link
speakers:
  - name: Karthik Ram
    bio: Karthik Ram is a Senior Research Scientist with the Berkeley Institute for Data Science, Project Lead and Co-founder of rOpenSci, Editor for rOpenSci Software Peer Review. He has a PhD in Ecology and Evolution. Karthik on [GitHub](https://github.com/karthik), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/\_inundata), [Website](http://karthik.io/)
    img: /img/team/karthik-ram.png
tags:
  - tag1
  - tag2
deets: "Zoom meeting ID 297 967 525. [Join Meeting](#)."
zoomurl: https://zoom.us/j/92298909939?pwd=MERubjdNUUw2aWp6RUFqSHllR01adz09
---

This 1-hour call on The Wild World of Data Repositories includes 5 speakers and 20 minutes for Q & A.

Moderator Kara Woo will 

### Where to deposit data
**Daniella Lowenberg**
What Dryad does; Dryad + Zenodo for sharing data + software; what do curators look for; new api and how it is open for new tools 

**Matt Jones** 
other repositories, DataONE, Arctic Data Center
(new metajam R pkg https://twitter.com/DataONEorg/status/1323701502159048710)

### Heading
**speaker name**
