content/commcalls/2021-05-25/index.md, before:

---
title: rOpenSci's R-universe Project
dateStart: 2021-05-25T17:00:00 # UTC!!
dateEnd: 2021-05-25T18:00:00 # UTC!!
date: 2021-05-25T18:00:00 # UTC!! same as dateEnd
publishDate: 2021-04-06
description: Setting up your own R universe
author:
  - Jeroen Ooms
  - Karthik Ram
organizer: Stefanie Butland
location: Community call (teleconference)
country: "\U0001F310"
attendees: All are welcome
slug: may2021-r-universe
notes: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1p5laoD-E7MlHFwp84_tgNYYgL6q0ZXlmjK2VsoB0lbE/
resources:
  - url: https://ropensci.org/r-universe/
    name: R-universe project page
    details:
  - url: https://jeroen.github.io/runiverse2021/
    name: Slides
    details: from the presentation
speakers:
  - name: Jeroen Ooms
    bio: Jeroen Ooms is rOpenSci's Lead Infrastructure Engineer. He has a PhD in Statistics from UCLA. Jeroen on [GitHub](https://github.com/jeroen), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/opencpu), [rOpenSci](/author/jeroen-ooms/)
    img: /img/team/jeroen_ooms.jpg
  - name: Karthik Ram
    bio: Karthik Ram is a Senior Research Scientist with the Berkeley Institute for Data Science, Director and Co-founder of rOpenSci, Editor for rOpenSci Software Peer Review. He has a PhD in Ecology and Evolution. Karthik on [GitHub](https://github.com/karthik), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/\_inundata), [Website](http://karthik.io/), [rOpenSci](/author/karthik-ram/)
    img: /img/team/karthik-ram.png
outputs:
- HTML
- Calendar
vimeo:
  - id: '555366597'
tags:
  - community call
  - events
  - r-universe
deets: |
    Meeting ID: 990 6282 3340

    Passcode: 664906
zoomurl: https://zoom.us/j/99062823340?pwd=d1AzL09GbDZ5ZlA1ek1yN3BZU2dsQT09
---
### Setting up your own R universe

Earlier this year we announced [R-universe](https://ropensci.org/r-universe/): a project by rOpenSci under which we experiment with various ideas for improving publication and discovery of research software packages in R. The platform is under heavy development, Jeroen's [talk at rstudio-conf 2021](https://resources.rstudio.com/resources/rstudioglobal-2021/monitoring-health-and-impact-of-open-source-projects/) outlines some of our ambitions for the effort.

During the initial pilot, we were testing the system using published packages [listed on CRAN](https://github.com/r-universe-org/cran-to-git) and the [rOpenSci registry](https://ropensci.org/packages/).
Now, we are gradually opening up the system to allow users to include any R packages into their own universe, to provide users with a personal space where they can publish experimental software, development versions, [research compendia](https://ropensci.org/blog/2021/04/09/r-universe-articles/) packages.

In this community call, we explain the basic steps of setting up your own universe, and getting started with publishing packages and articles on your [personal subdomain](https://jeroen.r-universe.dev). We are interested in hearing your thoughts and ideas on how this infrastructure can improve how researchers publish and discover R packages and related content.

This 1-hour event, moderated by Karthik Ram, will have at least 20 minutes for audience Q & A.

### Index of video and slides
- 0:00 Stefanie Butland, Welcome and introductions
- 3:10 Jeroen Ooms, Getting started with R-universe
  - 3:57 What is R-universe? ([slides](https://jeroen.github.io/runiverse2021/#3))
  - 7:52 Browsing R packages in a universe ([slides](https://jeroen.github.io/runiverse2021/#11))
  - 12:05 Browsing articles in a universe [slides](https://jeroen.github.io/runiverse2021/#20)
  - 14:07 API access to all the data! [slides](https://jeroen.github.io/runiverse2021/#25)
  - 17:00 For whom is R universe intended? [slides](https://jeroen.github.io/runiverse2021/#30)
  - 18:40 Example use-cases [slides](https://jeroen.github.io/runiverse2021/#32)
  - 28:48 Global feeds connect the universes [slides](https://jeroen.github.io/runiverse2021/#40)
  - 32:31 How to setup your own universe [slides](https://jeroen.github.io/runiverse2021/#45)
- 41:07 Karthik Ram, Big picture and context for the R-universe project
- 42:58 Q & A

Commit message:

move index up, click more obvious

content/commcalls/2021-05-25/index.md, after:

---
title: rOpenSci's R-universe Project
dateStart: 2021-05-25T17:00:00 # UTC!!
dateEnd: 2021-05-25T18:00:00 # UTC!!
date: 2021-05-25T18:00:00 # UTC!! same as dateEnd
publishDate: 2021-04-06
description: Setting up your own R universe
author:
  - Jeroen Ooms
  - Karthik Ram
organizer: Stefanie Butland
location: Community call (teleconference)
country: "\U0001F310"
attendees: All are welcome
slug: may2021-r-universe
notes: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1p5laoD-E7MlHFwp84_tgNYYgL6q0ZXlmjK2VsoB0lbE/
resources:
  - url: https://ropensci.org/r-universe/
    name: R-universe project page
    details:
  - url: https://jeroen.github.io/runiverse2021/
    name: Slides
    details: from the presentation
speakers:
  - name: Jeroen Ooms
    bio: Jeroen Ooms is rOpenSci's Lead Infrastructure Engineer. He has a PhD in Statistics from UCLA. Jeroen on [GitHub](https://github.com/jeroen), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/opencpu), [rOpenSci](/author/jeroen-ooms/)
    img: /img/team/jeroen_ooms.jpg
  - name: Karthik Ram
    bio: Karthik Ram is a Senior Research Scientist with the Berkeley Institute for Data Science, Director and Co-founder of rOpenSci, Editor for rOpenSci Software Peer Review. He has a PhD in Ecology and Evolution. Karthik on [GitHub](https://github.com/karthik), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/\_inundata), [Website](http://karthik.io/), [rOpenSci](/author/karthik-ram/)
    img: /img/team/karthik-ram.png
outputs:
- HTML
- Calendar
vimeo:
  - id: '555366597'
tags:
  - community call
  - events
  - r-universe
deets: |
    Meeting ID: 990 6282 3340

    Passcode: 664906
zoomurl: https://zoom.us/j/99062823340?pwd=d1AzL09GbDZ5ZlA1ek1yN3BZU2dsQT09
---

### Index of video and slides
- 0:00 Stefanie Butland, Welcome and introductions
- 3:10 Jeroen Ooms, Getting started with R-universe
  - 3:57 What is R-universe? ([click for slides](https://jeroen.github.io/runiverse2021/#3))
  - 7:52 Browsing R packages in a universe ([click for slides](https://jeroen.github.io/runiverse2021/#11))
  - 12:05 Browsing articles in a universe ([click for slides](https://jeroen.github.io/runiverse2021/#20))
  - 14:07 API access to all the data! ([click for slides](https://jeroen.github.io/runiverse2021/#25))
  - 17:00 For whom is R universe intended? ([click for slides](https://jeroen.github.io/runiverse2021/#30))
  - 18:40 Example use-cases ([click for slides](https://jeroen.github.io/runiverse2021/#32))
  - 28:48 Global feeds connect the universes ([click for slides](https://jeroen.github.io/runiverse2021/#40))
  - 32:31 How to setup your own universe ([click for slides](https://jeroen.github.io/runiverse2021/#45))
- 41:07 Karthik Ram, Big picture and context for the R-universe project
- 42:58 Q & A

### Setting up your own R universe

Earlier this year we announced [R-universe](https://ropensci.org/r-universe/): a project by rOpenSci under which we experiment with various ideas for improving publication and discovery of research software packages in R. The platform is under heavy development, Jeroen's [talk at rstudio-conf 2021](https://resources.rstudio.com/resources/rstudioglobal-2021/monitoring-health-and-impact-of-open-source-projects/) outlines some of our ambitions for the effort.

During the initial pilot, we were testing the system using published packages [listed on CRAN](https://github.com/r-universe-org/cran-to-git) and the [rOpenSci registry](https://ropensci.org/packages/).
Now, we are gradually opening up the system to allow users to include any R packages into their own universe, to provide users with a personal space where they can publish experimental software, development versions, [research compendia](https://ropensci.org/blog/2021/04/09/r-universe-articles/) packages.

In this community call, we explain the basic steps of setting up your own universe, and getting started with publishing packages and articles on your [personal subdomain](https://jeroen.r-universe.dev). We are interested in hearing your thoughts and ideas on how this infrastructure can improve how researchers publish and discover R packages and related content.

This 1-hour event, moderated by Karthik Ram, will have at least 20 minutes for audience Q & A.
