content/stat-software-review/_index.md, before:

+++
title = "rOpenSci Statistical Software Peer Review"
description = "rOpenSci's open peer-review system of R statistical packages"
+++

rOpenSci is currently working to expand our peer review system beyond its current scope to explicitly review packages that implement statistical algorithms. This requires an expansion of our editor and reviewer community to bring in new expertise, and new sets of standards and approaches to deal with the particular challenges of statistical methods. We aim to initially include packages from the following 11 categories:

1. Bayesian and Monte Carlo Routines
2. Dimensionality Reduction, Clustering, and Unsupervised Learning
3. Machine Learning
4. Regression and Supervised Learning
5. Probability Distributions
6. Wrapper Packages
7. Networks
8. Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) and Summary Statistics
9. Workflow Support
10. Spatial Analyses
11. Time Series Analyses


Our process to develop these standards is primarily documented and organised through our online ["living document"](https://ropenscilabs.github.io/statistical-software-review-book/index.html). We anticipate the system being ready for initial submissions early in 2021. Until then, we welcome any enquiries from anyone interested in engaging with the system, including developers who might be interested in pre-submission enquiries. Please contribute via our [discussion forum](https://discuss.ropensci.org/c/statistical-software-peer-review/28), or contact Mark Padgham (mark@ropensci.org).

This work is supported through a [grant from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation](/blog/2019/07/15/expanding-software-review/).

Commit message:

update stat-software parts of site

content/stat-software-review/_index.md, after:

+++
title = "rOpenSci Statistical Software Peer Review"
description = "rOpenSci's open peer-review system of R statistical packages"
+++

We at rOpenSci have recently expanded our peer review system beyond its former scope to enable us to review packages that implement statistical algorithms. This has required an expansion of our editor and reviewer community to bring in new expertise, and new sets of standards and approaches to deal with the particular challenges of statistical methods. We are currently able to review packages in the following 7 categories of statistical software:

1. Bayesian and Monte Carlo Routines
2. Dimensionality Reduction, Clustering, and Unsupervised Learning
3. Machine Learning
4. Regression and Supervised Learning
5. Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) and Summary Statistics
6. Spatial Analyses
7. Time Series Analyses

We aim to expand the system to include the following four additional categories:

8. Probability Distributions
9. Wrapper Packages
10. Networks
11. Workflow Support

Full details of procedures for preparing and submitting statistical packages for peer review are containing in our ["*Statistical Software Peer Review*" book](https://ropenscilabs.github.io/statistical-software-review-book/index.html). The system is currently in an initial trial phase, during which we ask that packages authors wishing to submit first do via opening a pre-submission enquiry issue at [ropenscilabs/statistical-software-review](https://github.com/ropenscilabs/statistical-software-review). Anyone wishing to submit is also welcome to directly contact the statistical software team (Mark Padgham, mark<at>ropensci.org, and Noam Ross, ross<at>ecohealthalliance.org).

This work is supported through a [grant from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation](/blog/2019/07/15/expanding-software-review/).
