content/blog/2020-10-27-editors2020/index.md, before:

---
title: 'Announcing New Software Peer Review Editors: Laura DeCicco, Julia Gustavsen, Mauro Lepore'
author:
  - Stefanie Butland
date: '2020-10-27'
slug: editors2020
tags:
  - Software Peer Review
  - editors
description: Introducing 3 new editors for rOpenSci software review
# twitterImg: blog/2019/06/04/post-template/name-of-image.png
---

We are pleased to welcome Laura DeCicco, Julia Gustavsen, and Mauro Lepore to our team of [Associate Editors](/software-review/#editors) for rOpenSci [Software Peer Review](/software-review/). 
They join [Brooke Anderson](/blog/2019/01/31/more_editors/), [Anna Krystalli](/blog/2018/06/22/new_editors/), [Karthik Ram](/author/karthik-ram/), [Noam Ross](/author/noam-ross/), [Maëlle Salmon](/author/maëlle-salmon/), and [Melina Vidoni](/blog/2019/01/31/more_editors/). 
[Lincoln Mullen](/blog/2018/06/22/new_editors/) and [Scott Chamberlain](/author/scott-chamberlain/) are now board alumni. 

Since 2015, rOpenSci has been running a software peer review system to combine the best of academic peer review with software review. 
Having robust and reliable software tools is an important component of supporting open science and reproducible research.
Editors manage the review process, performing initial package checks, identifying reviewers, and moderating the process until the package is accepted by reviewers and transferred to rOpenSci. 

Meet our new editors!

## Laura DeCicco

{{< imgtxt src = "/img/team/laura-decicco.jpg" width = "200" alt = "photo of Laura DeCicco holding a small crocodilian-looking reptile">}} 

Laura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... 

{{< /imgtxt >}}

Laura on [GitHub](https://github.com/ldecicco-USGS), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/DeCiccoDonk)

> quote



## Julia Gustavsen

{{< imgtxt src = "/img/team/julia-gustavsen.jpg" width = "200" alt = "headshot of Julia Gustavsen" >}} 

Julia Gustavsen is ... bioJulia Gustavsen is ... bioJulia Gustavsen is ... bioJulia Gustavsen is ... bioJulia Gustavsen is ... bioJulia Gustavsen is ... bioJulia Gustavsen is ... bioJulia Gustavsen is ... bioJulia Gustavsen is ... bioJulia Gustavsen is ... bioJulia Gustavsen is ... bioJulia Gustavsen is ... bioJulia Gustavsen is ... bioJulia Gustavsen is ... bioJulia Gustavsen is ... bioJulia Gustavsen is ... bio

{{< /imgtxt >}}


Julia on [GitHub](https://github.com/jooolia), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/JuliaGustavsen), [website](https://www.juliagustavsen.com/)

> quote


## Mauro Lepore

{{< imgtxt src = "/img/team/mauro-lepore.jpg" width = "200" alt = "headshot of Mauro Lepore" >}}

Mauro Lepore is ... bioMauro Lepore is ... bioMauro Lepore is ... bioMauro Lepore is ... bioMauro Lepore is ... bioMauro Lepore is ... bioMauro Lepore is ... bioMauro Lepore is ... bioMauro Lepore is ... bioMauro Lepore is ... bioMauro Lepore is ... bioMauro Lepore is ... bioMauro Lepore is ... bioMauro Lepore is ... bioMauro Lepore is ... bioMauro Lepore is ... bioMauro Lepore is ... bio

{{< /imgtxt >}}

Mauro on [GitHub](https://github.com/maurolepore), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/mauro_lepore), [website](https://maurolepore.github.io/)

> quote

Commit message:

Add maurolepore's bio and quote
This responds to this request by @stefaniebutland:

> What do I need from you by Mon Oct 19th?
> - your short bio, or link to one I can copy/paraphrase
> - a short quote from you - can be anything about code review or why you are willing to volunteer
>  your time, experience, and expertise to do this (see the posts above)

content/blog/2020-10-27-editors2020/index.md, after:

---
title: 'Announcing New Software Peer Review Editors: Laura DeCicco, Julia Gustavsen, Mauro Lepore'
author:
  - Stefanie Butland
date: '2020-10-27'
slug: editors2020
tags:
  - Software Peer Review
  - editors
description: Introducing 3 new editors for rOpenSci software review
# twitterImg: blog/2019/06/04/post-template/name-of-image.png
---

We are pleased to welcome Laura DeCicco, Julia Gustavsen, and Mauro Lepore to our team of [Associate Editors](/software-review/#editors) for rOpenSci [Software Peer Review](/software-review/). 
They join [Brooke Anderson](/blog/2019/01/31/more_editors/), [Anna Krystalli](/blog/2018/06/22/new_editors/), [Karthik Ram](/author/karthik-ram/), [Noam Ross](/author/noam-ross/), [Maëlle Salmon](/author/maëlle-salmon/), and [Melina Vidoni](/blog/2019/01/31/more_editors/). 
[Lincoln Mullen](/blog/2018/06/22/new_editors/) and [Scott Chamberlain](/author/scott-chamberlain/) are now board alumni. 

Since 2015, rOpenSci has been running a software peer review system to combine the best of academic peer review with software review. 
Having robust and reliable software tools is an important component of supporting open science and reproducible research.
Editors manage the review process, performing initial package checks, identifying reviewers, and moderating the process until the package is accepted by reviewers and transferred to rOpenSci. 

Meet our new editors!

## Laura DeCicco

{{< imgtxt src = "/img/team/laura-decicco.jpg" width = "200" alt = "photo of Laura DeCicco holding a small crocodilian-looking reptile">}} 

Laura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... bioLaura is ... 

{{< /imgtxt >}}

Laura on [GitHub](https://github.com/ldecicco-USGS), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/DeCiccoDonk)

> quote



## Julia Gustavsen

{{< imgtxt src = "/img/team/julia-gustavsen.jpg" width = "200" alt = "headshot of Julia Gustavsen" >}} 

Julia Gustavsen is ... bioJulia Gustavsen is ... bioJulia Gustavsen is ... bioJulia Gustavsen is ... bioJulia Gustavsen is ... bioJulia Gustavsen is ... bioJulia Gustavsen is ... bioJulia Gustavsen is ... bioJulia Gustavsen is ... bioJulia Gustavsen is ... bioJulia Gustavsen is ... bioJulia Gustavsen is ... bioJulia Gustavsen is ... bioJulia Gustavsen is ... bioJulia Gustavsen is ... bioJulia Gustavsen is ... bio

{{< /imgtxt >}}


Julia on [GitHub](https://github.com/jooolia), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/JuliaGustavsen), [website](https://www.juliagustavsen.com/)

> quote


## Mauro Lepore

{{< imgtxt src = "/img/team/mauro-lepore.jpg" width = "200" alt = "headshot of Mauro Lepore" >}}

Mauro builds R packages for the think tank [2 Degrees Investing
Initiative](https://2degrees-investing.org/). His PhD
([UQ](https://www.uq.edu.au/)) and post-doctoral reserach
([STRI](https://stri.si.edu/)) studied human impacts on coral reefs from
Australia and Panama. Since 2017 he teaches data-science and builds research
software. He co-authors the package
[datos](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=datos) to translate the dataset from
the book [R for Data Science](https://r4ds.had.co.nz/) to Spanish; and reviewed
the rOpenSci package
[gitignore](https://github.com/ropensci/software-review/issues/303) and edited
[medrxivr](https://github.com/ropensci/software-review/issues/380).

{{< /imgtxt >}}

Mauro on [GitHub](https://github.com/maurolepore), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/mauro_lepore)

> I learned to build software in a job where I had no mentor; but I got the support I needed from the rOpenSci community. Having the opportunity to give back is exiting -- specially now that the R community is thriving in Latin America, and rOpenSci will experiment doing reviews in Spanish.
