content/blog/2023-07-21-champions-program-training/index.md, before:

---
title: "Training at the rOpenSci Champions Program Pilot"
author:
  - Yanina Bellini Saibene
  - Camille Santistevan
  - Maya Sanghvi
  - Maëlle Salmon
  - Mauro Lepore
  - Heather Turner
  - Paola Corrales
date: '2023-07-21'
tags:
  - community
  - champions program
  - training
description: ""
---

Our first cohort of the [rOpenSci Champions Program](/champions/) has now completed the first phase of their training. In this article, we share the curriculum created for the champions, mentors, and applicants, and what we learned in this pilot.

## Training for the Champions

We planned a six-week training that covered the following topics:

* how to plan and facilitate engaging and inclusive workshops to support participants’ success,
* knowledge of various channels through which new members can engage in and contribute to rOpenSci and R projects, and
* technical skills in software development and review.

The final curriculum for this pilot consisted of 5 courses:

### Making a PACT for engaging virtual meetings and events

In this 90-minute mini-workshop hosted by the [Center for Scientific Collaboration and Community Engagement](https://www.cscce.org/),
participants explore designing and facilitating engaging and productive virtual meetings and events.

Participants discuss the opportunities and challenges of working together online and outline the “Making a PACT” framework for effective meeting design. In addition to reviewing examples of the framework in action, attendees practice applying it  to some example scenarios to empower them to try using  the framework in their own work.
Participants are welcome to review the CSCCE’s free guidebook on Zenodo ahead of the session: [A guide to using virtual events to facilitation community building: Making a PACT for more engaging virtual meetings and events](https://zenodo.org/record/4987666#.Y-1Y4nbMK5c)

All champions must complete this training.

This training was taught by Camille Santistevan and Maya Sanghvi.

### [Package Development: The Mechanics](https://rpkgdev-mechanics.netlify.app/)

In this two-hour session with a live demo, an rOpenSci trainer demystifies the creation of an R package. R packages are mostly well-organized folders, with automatic tools to help, such as usethis.

This training was developed for the Champion Program and taught by [Maëlle Salmon](/author/maëlle-salmon/).  It is intended for champions planning to develop a package who have not previously developed or contributed to packages.


### [Package Development: Not Rocket Science](https://rpkgdev-rocket.netlify.app/)

This two-hour workshop is for R users who’ve already developed or contributed to packages or have taken the "Package Development: The Mechanics workshop". It is intended for champions planning to develop a package or submit it for review and who want to learn several tips and tricks on package development.
Ideally, participants attend with a package of their own to use as a playground.

This training was developed for the Champion Program and taught by [Maëlle Salmon](/author/maëlle-salmon/).  

### [How rOpenSci Performs Peer Review](https://github.com/maurolepore/ropensci-review)

This one-hour workshop is for people wanting to try the rOpenSci review process, particularly for champions who will send a package to review or become reviewers. We review the way we communicate, build, and review software with selected examples and resources, with some time for questions and comments.

This training was developed for the Champion Program and taught by [Mauro Lepore](/author/mauro-lepore/). 


### [How to contribute to base R](https://ropensci.org/events/2023-05-18-how-to-contribute-base-r/ )

This workshop is a 60-minute walkthrough of how to contribute to base R. The outline includes how to contribute to a bug, confirm a bug, diagnose a bug, and propose a fix to code/documentation.  

The workshop presents tools and strategies to find a bug to work on and discusses what features make a bug good for a first-timer. Using real bug reports, participants practice identifying good first issues. Then the process of debugging code/documentation is introduced in a collaborative exercise. Participants are briefly shown how to propose a bug fix by commenting on Bugzilla or creating a patch using GitHub. Finally, pointers are shared to further help and resources.

This training was developed and taught by [Heather Turner](/author/heather-turner/), and is open to all champions and mentors.

In addition, champions are invited to the training session for non-selected applicants as an optional activity.

## Training for the Mentors

### [rOpenSci Champions Program. Mentorship Training and Orientation](https://ropensci-training.github.io/ropensci-mentors/)

Mentors develop their mentoring skills during this training and orientation, which covers active listening, effective questioning, and giving feedback. They receive resources for their mentoring roles, such as the Mentors' Guidelines, Meeting Templates, and details of the logistics of the champions program.

This training was developed for the Champion Program, taught by [Yanina Bellini Saibene](/author/yanina-bellini-saibene/), and all mentors must complete it. 

In addition, mentors are invited to all the trainings sessions offered to champions and non-selected applicants as an optional activity.

## Training for non-selected applicants

We also conduct a workshop for those not selected to be champions. The aim of this workshop is to provide an opportunity for all applicants to develop skills in open-source software development to support their their professional advancement, which may include future applications to this or other similar programs.

### [Developing Software Together](https://paocorrales.github.io/git-developing-software-together/)  

It is a three-hour course on using Git and GitHub to collaboratively develop open-source software with the R language. The training presents how to work with Git, using the command line, RStudio, and GitHub. The workshop introduces the concept of version control systems, local and remote repositories, and actions like stage, commit, push, pull, and merge.  It also shows how to collaborate with others through forks and pull requests. The workshop has hands-on and group exercises.

The training was developed by [Paola Corrales](https://ropensci.org/author/pao-corrales/) and taught by Paola and Yanina Bellini Saibene. 


## What do our participants think of the training received?

At the end of each workshop, we asked those who participated to fill out an anonymous survey telling us three things: 

* What did you like the most?

* What did you like the least? 

* Can you rate this meeting? (on a scale from 1-worst to 5-best). 

We plan to use this feedback to improve the next run of the champions program. The average score for all the training sessions is **4.6**, which shows that the attendees are very satisfied with the workshops. 

When we analyze the responses to "What did you like the most?" we found four positive aspects mentioned: _Interaction with other participants_, _Structure_ of the workshop, _Material and Resources_ shared during the workshop, and _Exercises_ performed during training. 

The following plot shows the number of mentions for each aspect and an example comment explaining why it was perceived positively by the participants. The comments highlight various aspects of the training, such as enjoyable interactions, valuable tools provided, opportunities for reflection and a good structure based on practice after instruction.

{{< figure src = "feedback_positive.png" class = "pull-left" alt = "Ranked quantities of four different positive aspects in a bar plot. The aspects are Material and Resources (15 mentions), Interaction with other participants, (10 mentions), Exercises (8 mentions), and Structure (7 mentions). Each aspect is followed by a comment explaining why it was perceived positively by the participants.">}}

Even though the answers to "What did you like the least?" show that most attendees think there is _Nothing_ they liked the least, we identify five areas for improvement: _Level_ of the training, _More time_ for all the content or exercises, _Tools_ used during the workshops,  _Exercises_ during the workshop, _Pace_ of the teaching. In the plot we show the number of mentions and each aspect is followed by a comment explaining the specific improvement, suggestion, or feedback. 

The comments highlight the need for more time to cover content, the desire for better collaboration tools, the request for additional exercises, and the suggestion to offer different levels of training, one for beginners and one for competent practitioners. The comments also include expressions of overall satisfaction while mentioning challenges, like time zones. 

{{< figure src = "feedback_toimprove.png" class = "pull-right" alt = "Ranked quantities of five areas of improvement in a bar plot. The aspect are Nothing (12 mentions), Level (5 mentions), More time (4 mentions), Tools (4 mentions), Exercises (3 mentions), and Pace (3 mentions). Each aspect has a comment explaining the specific improvement suggestion or feedback.">}}

The survey data provide us with valuable insights into the participants' perspectives on the strengths and areas for improvement of our trainings and will allow us to take action to further enhance future iterations of the training.


## Next Steps

With a new cohort starting this year we plan to improve the schedule for each training session, allowing participants to choose between two runs of the session that cover different time zones, and recording the sessions for participants to watch after the meeting. We will develop guidelines to increasing the accessibility of each session and change the order of the workshops. Specifically, training on how to organize events will be conducted closer to the time when champions should start planning their outreach activities. In this way they will be able to use the workshop to work on their concrete proposals and receive feedback from the instructors and the rest of their peers. 

With these actions we intend to address some of the difficulties related to time zones, accessibility, and participants' other commitments. 


## Achievements

We developed a new curriculum involving not only rOpenSci staff but also champions,  mentors, and individuals from other communities, which has strengthened the connections between rOpenSci and others in our shared ecosystem. 

We also published all the training material with open licenses. This has enabled other organizations, such as The Netherlands eScience Center, to adapt and reuse our materials for training mentors for their own fellows programs.  

Overall, the rOpenSci Champions Program successfully trained participants in essential skills for their role as champions and mentors while fostering engagement and collaboration in open-source research software development. 


## Acknowledgements

This phase of the champions program was made possible by the work and feedback of many people.

We want to thank the CSCCE team, especially _Lou Woodley_, _Camille Santistevan_, and _Maya Sanghvi_, for their support in designing the overall program and for their "Making a PACT" workshop for the champions.

We also want to thank _Maëlle Salmon_, _Mauro Lepore_, _Paola Corrales_, _Heather Turner_, and _Yanina Bellini Saibene_ for developing and teaching the rest of the workshops in the program and to _Yanina_ for supporting the design of the new workshops, the support infrastructure and organizing all the training.

We also thank _Batool Almarzouq_ for her feedback on the idea of mentor training and _Abigail Cabunoc Mayes_ for her advice and material in developing the mentors workshop.

Finally, thanks to our [champions and mentors](/champions/) for actively participating and sharing their recommendations to improve the training of the program.

Commit message:

Final adding from review suggestions
- Improve pictures
- Add use case
- Add open call for the new cohort

content/blog/2023-07-21-champions-program-training/index.md, after:

---
title: "Training at the rOpenSci Champions Program Pilot"
author:
  - Yanina Bellini Saibene
  - Camille Santistevan
  - Maya Sanghvi
  - Maëlle Salmon
  - Mauro Lepore
  - Heather Turner
  - Paola Corrales
date: '2023-07-21'
tags:
  - community
  - champions program
  - training
description: ""
---

Our first cohort of the [rOpenSci Champions Program](/champions/) has now completed the first phase of their training. In this article, we share the curriculum created for the champions, mentors, and applicants, and what we learned in this pilot.


## Training for the Champions

We planned a six-week training that covered the following topics:

* how to plan and facilitate engaging and inclusive workshops to support participants’ success,
* knowledge of various channels through which new members can engage in and contribute to rOpenSci and R projects, and
* technical skills in software development and review.

The final curriculum for this pilot consisted of 5 courses:

### Making a PACT for engaging virtual meetings and events

In this 90-minute mini-workshop hosted by the [Center for Scientific Collaboration and Community Engagement](https://www.cscce.org/),
participants explore designing and facilitating engaging and productive virtual meetings and events.

Participants discuss the opportunities and challenges of working together online and outline the “Making a PACT” framework for effective meeting design. In addition to reviewing examples of the framework in action, attendees practice applying it  to some example scenarios to empower them to try using  the framework in their own work.
Participants are welcome to review the CSCCE’s free guidebook on Zenodo ahead of the session: [A guide to using virtual events to facilitation community building: Making a PACT for more engaging virtual meetings and events](https://zenodo.org/record/4987666#.Y-1Y4nbMK5c)

All champions must complete this training.

This training was taught by Camille Santistevan and Maya Sanghvi.

### [Package Development: The Mechanics](https://rpkgdev-mechanics.netlify.app/)

In this two-hour session with a live demo, an rOpenSci trainer demystifies the creation of an R package. R packages are mostly well-organized folders, with automatic tools to help, such as usethis.

This training was developed for the Champion Program and taught by [Maëlle Salmon](/author/maëlle-salmon/).  It is intended for champions planning to develop a package who have not previously developed or contributed to packages.


### [Package Development: Not Rocket Science](https://rpkgdev-rocket.netlify.app/)

This two-hour workshop is for R users who’ve already developed or contributed to packages or have taken the "Package Development: The Mechanics workshop". It is intended for champions planning to develop a package or submit it for review and who want to learn several tips and tricks on package development.
Ideally, participants attend with a package of their own to use as a playground.

This training was developed for the Champion Program and taught by [Maëlle Salmon](/author/maëlle-salmon/).  

### [How rOpenSci Performs Peer Review](https://github.com/maurolepore/ropensci-review)

This one-hour workshop is for people wanting to try the rOpenSci review process, particularly for champions who will send a package to review or become reviewers. We review the way we communicate, build, and review software with selected examples and resources, with some time for questions and comments.

This training was developed for the Champion Program and taught by [Mauro Lepore](/author/mauro-lepore/). 


### [How to contribute to base R](https://ropensci.org/events/2023-05-18-how-to-contribute-base-r/ )

This workshop is a 60-minute walkthrough of how to contribute to base R. The outline includes how to contribute to a bug, confirm a bug, diagnose a bug, and propose a fix to code/documentation.  

The workshop presents tools and strategies to find a bug to work on and discusses what features make a bug good for a first-timer. Using real bug reports, participants practice identifying good first issues. Then the process of debugging code/documentation is introduced in a collaborative exercise. Participants are briefly shown how to propose a bug fix by commenting on Bugzilla or creating a patch using GitHub. Finally, pointers are shared to further help and resources.

This training was developed and taught by [Heather Turner](/author/heather-turner/), and is open to all champions and mentors.

In addition, champions are invited to the training session for non-selected applicants as an optional activity.

## Training for the Mentors

### [rOpenSci Champions Program. Mentorship Training and Orientation](https://ropensci-training.github.io/ropensci-mentors/)

Mentors develop their mentoring skills during this training and orientation, which covers active listening, effective questioning, and giving feedback. They receive resources for their mentoring roles, such as the Mentors' Guidelines, Meeting Templates, and details of the logistics of the champions program.

This training was developed for the Champion Program, taught by [Yanina Bellini Saibene](/author/yanina-bellini-saibene/), and all mentors must complete it. 

In addition, mentors are invited to all the trainings sessions offered to champions and non-selected applicants as an optional activity.

## Training for non-selected applicants

We also conduct a workshop for those not selected to be champions. The aim of this workshop is to provide an opportunity for all applicants to develop skills in open-source software development to support their their professional advancement, which may include future applications to this or other similar programs.

### [Developing Software Together](https://paocorrales.github.io/git-developing-software-together/)  

It is a three-hour course on using Git and GitHub to collaboratively develop open-source software with the R language. The training presents how to work with Git, using the command line, RStudio, and GitHub. The workshop introduces the concept of version control systems, local and remote repositories, and actions like stage, commit, push, pull, and merge.  It also shows how to collaborate with others through forks and pull requests. The workshop has hands-on and group exercises.

The training was developed by [Paola Corrales](https://ropensci.org/author/pao-corrales/) and taught by Paola and Yanina Bellini Saibene. 


## What do our participants think of the training received?

At the end of each workshop, we asked those who participated to fill out an anonymous survey telling us three things: 

* What did you like the most?

* What did you like the least? 

* Can you rate this meeting? (on a scale from 1-worst to 5-best). 

We plan to use this feedback to improve the next run of the champions program. The average score for all the training sessions is **4.6**, which shows that the attendees are very satisfied with the workshops. 

When we analyze the responses to "What did you like the most?" we found four positive aspects mentioned: _Interaction with other participants_, _Structure_ of the workshop, _Material and Resources_ shared during the workshop, and _Exercises_ performed during training. 

The following plot shows the number of mentions for each aspect and an example comment explaining why it was perceived positively by the participants. The comments highlight various aspects of the training, such as enjoyable interactions, valuable tools provided, opportunities for reflection and a good structure based on practice after instruction.

{{< figure src = "feedback_positive.png" class = "pull-left" alt = "Ranked quantities of four different positive aspects in a bar plot. The aspects are Material and Resources (15 mentions), Interaction with other participants, (10 mentions), Exercises (8 mentions), and Structure (7 mentions). Each aspect is followed by a comment explaining why it was perceived positively by the participants.">}}

Even though the answers to "What did you like the least?" show that most attendees think there is _Nothing_ they liked the least, we identify five areas for improvement: _Level_ of the training, _More time_ for all the content or exercises, _Tools_ used during the workshops,  _Exercises_ during the workshop, _Pace_ of the teaching. In the plot we show the number of mentions and each aspect is followed by a comment explaining the specific improvement, suggestion, or feedback. 

The comments highlight the need for more time to cover content, the desire for better collaboration tools, the request for additional exercises, and the suggestion to offer different levels of training, one for beginners and one for competent practitioners. The comments also include expressions of overall satisfaction while mentioning challenges, like time zones. 

{{< figure src = "feedback_toimprove.png" class = "pull-right" alt = "Ranked quantities of five areas of improvement in a bar plot. The aspect are Nothing (12 mentions), Level (5 mentions), More time (4 mentions), Tools (4 mentions), Exercises (3 mentions), and Pace (3 mentions). Each aspect has a comment explaining the specific improvement suggestion or feedback.">}}

The survey data provide us with valuable insights into the participants' perspectives on the strengths and areas for improvement of our trainings and will allow us to take action to further enhance future iterations of the training.


## Next Steps

With a new cohort starting this year ([you can apply now](/blog/2023/07/14/call-champions-program/)!) we plan to improve the schedule for each training session, allowing participants to choose between two runs of the session that cover different time zones, and recording the sessions for participants to watch after the meeting. We will develop guidelines to increasing the accessibility of each session and change the order of the workshops. Specifically, training on how to organize events will be conducted closer to the time when champions should start planning their outreach activities. In this way they will be able to use the workshop to work on their concrete proposals and receive feedback from the instructors and the rest of their peers. 

With these actions we intend to address some of the difficulties related to time zones, accessibility, and participants' other commitments. 


## Achievements

We developed a new curriculum involving not only rOpenSci staff but also champions,  mentors, and individuals from other communities, which has strengthened the connections between rOpenSci and others in our shared ecosystem. 

We also published all the training material with open licenses. This has enabled other organizations, such as The Netherlands eScience Center, to adapt and reuse our materials for training mentors for their own fellows programs.  If you use our training materials, please consider [tell us by sharing your use case](/usecases/).

Overall, the rOpenSci Champions Program successfully trained participants in essential skills for their role as champions and mentors while fostering engagement and collaboration in open-source research software development. 


## Acknowledgements

This phase of the champions program was made possible by the work and feedback of many people.

We want to thank the CSCCE team, especially _Lou Woodley_, _Camille Santistevan_, and _Maya Sanghvi_, for their support in designing the overall program and for their "Making a PACT" workshop for the champions.

We also want to thank _Maëlle Salmon_, _Mauro Lepore_, _Paola Corrales_, _Heather Turner_, and _Yanina Bellini Saibene_ for developing and teaching the rest of the workshops in the program and to _Yanina_ for supporting the design of the new workshops, the support infrastructure and organizing all the training.

We also thank _Batool Almarzouq_ for her feedback on the idea of mentor training and _Abigail Cabunoc Mayes_ for her advice and material in developing the mentors workshop.

Finally, thanks to our [champions and mentors](/champions/) for actively participating and sharing their recommendations to improve the training of the program.
