content/commcalls/2023-07-31/index.md, before:

---
title: "Mentoring & training program for Scientific Open Source Champions"
dateStart: 2023-07-31T20:00:00 # UTC!!
dateEnd: 2023-07-31T21:00:00 # UTC!!
date: 2023-07-31T21:00:00 # UTC!! same as dateEnd
publishDate: 2023-06-30
description: Details about the Champions Program + tips for submitting your application + the experience of being an rOpenSci champion or mentor
author:
  - Beatriz Milz
  - 
  - 
organizer: Yanina Bellini Saibene
location: Community call (teleconference)
country: "\U0001F310"
attendees: All are welcome
slug: july2023-championprogram
notes: 
outputs:
- HTML
- Calendar 
# vimeo:
# - id: 
resources:
  - url: 
    name:   
    details: 

speakers:  
  - name: Beatriz Milz
    bio: 
    img: /img/community/picture.jpeg
  - name: Victor Ordu
    bio:        
    img: /img/community/picture.jpg    
  - name:  Carolina Pradier
    bio: 
    img: /img/community/picture.jpeg  
tags:
  - community call
  - events
  - champions program
deets: |
    Meeting ID:  
    Passcode: 
zoomurl: 
---

Champions programs are designed to identify, recognize, and reward emerging leaders within a community. The [rOpenSci Champions Program](/champions/) is part of a series of activities and projects we are carrying out to ensure our research software serves everyone in our communities, which means that it needs to be sustainable and open, and built by and for all groups.

On this call _Beatriz_, _ _ and _ _ will share their experience of being rOpenSci mentors and champions. 
We will highlight the benefits of being part of the program for you and for your community, what kind of learning, 
activities and opportunities an open source community champions program provides. 
_Yani_ will present the details of our Champion Program and answer all your question about it.


See below for speaker bios and resources.

Commit message:

Adding champions and mentor info

content/commcalls/2023-07-31/index.md, after:

---
title: "Mentoring & training program for Scientific Open Source Champions"
dateStart: 2023-07-31T20:00:00 # UTC!!
dateEnd: 2023-07-31T21:00:00 # UTC!!
date: 2023-07-31T21:00:00 # UTC!! same as dateEnd
publishDate: 2023-06-30
description: Details about the Champions Program + tips for submitting your application + the experience of being an rOpenSci champion or mentor
author:
  - Beatriz Milz
  - 
  - 
organizer: Yanina Bellini Saibene
location: Community call (teleconference)
country: "\U0001F310"
attendees: All are welcome
slug: july2023-championprogram
notes: 
outputs:
- HTML
- Calendar 
# vimeo:
# - id: 
resources:
  - url: 
    name:   
    details: 

speakers:  
  - name: Beatriz Milz
    bio: I'm a mentor in the rOpenSci's Champions Program . I'm an R-Lady from São Paulo - Brazil and a Ph.D. Candidate 
    in Environmental Sciences at University of São Paulo and I also work as a Data Scientist and an R teacher at Curso-R. 
    I am a tidyverse instructor certified by Posit, and a co-organizer of communities and events, such as Latin-R, and satRday São Paulo.
    img: /img/team/beatriz-milz-mentor.jpeg
  - name: Victor Ordu
    bio: I'm a medical doctor with many years of experience in the Nigerian healthcare space. I'm an independent consultant 
    for the UN and international NGOs working in Nigeria, R has been the focus of much of my work. I also conducts R training 
    programs for public and private organizations in Nigeria and I'm the author of R packages, one of them is part of my project
    as rOpenSci Champion.        
    img: /img/team/victor-ordu-mentee.jpg  
  - name:  Carolina Pradier
    bio:  I am an economist and data scientist. I have a degree in Economics, and I am currently finishing my Master’s degree 
    in Labour Studies, both at the University of Buenos Aires. I work as a research and teaching assistant at CEPED-UBA 
    and I’m also an active member of Ecofeminita’s economics and data team (ecofemidata) and maintainer of the eph R package, which
    is my project as rOpenSci Champion. 
    img: /img/team/carolina-pradier-mentee.jpg  
tags:
  - community call
  - events
  - champions program
deets: |
    Meeting ID:  
    Passcode: 
zoomurl: 
---

Champions programs are designed to identify, recognize, and reward emerging leaders within a community. The [rOpenSci Champions Program](/champions/) is part of a series of activities and projects we are carrying out to ensure our research software serves everyone in our communities, which means that it needs to be sustainable and open, and built by and for all groups.

On this call _Beatriz_, _ _ and _ _ will share their experience of being rOpenSci mentors and champions. 
We will highlight the benefits of being part of the program for you and for your community, what kind of learning, 
activities and opportunities an open source community champions program provides. 
_Yani_ will present the details of our Champion Program and answer all your question about it.


See below for speaker bios and resources.
